Visualization and Digital Communication Specialist - REMOTE
Global Risk Center - Remote
About the Organization



Armed Conflict Location & Event Data (ACLED) is an independent, impartial conflict and protest monitoring organization providing real-time data and analysis on violent conflict and protest in all countries and territories across the world.





The Role



ACLED is looking for a Visualization and Digital Communication Specialist, taking part in the Global Risk Center Department, and reporting to the Manager of Risk Outputs.



This position is fully remote and can be done from any location with reliable internet service.




Specific Roles and Responsibilities



The Visualization and Digital Communication Specialist will be responsible for the following tasks:



Data visualization and digital communications 



Produce original visualizations of conflict patterns, themes and analysis outputs.
Accurately and ably produce publishable quality maps, graphs and visuals for all ACLED departments.
Cover all regions and make region-specific contributions to thematic or global outputs.
Update and refine guidelines and direction of ACLED’s data visualizations and visual analysis.
Support and further innovate on ACLED’s visual reporting and enhance ACLED’s visual brand identity.
Research new data visualization methods and software to continuously improve ACLED outputs, keeping our  data visualization outputs at the forefront of the latest visual trends. 
Contribute to the production of EA team and Global Risk Center outputs, in close coordination with the regional experts. 
Contribute to the media team’s response to journalist enquiries.
Ensure data visualizations are using and applying correct data and summaries.
Transform complex datasets into compelling visual stories.
Support outreach efforts, liaising with the media, partners, and other external stakeholders in coordination with the External Affairs department.


Other 



Take part in and contribute to ACLED internal meetings.
Regularly support how the Risk Center and the EA team assess brand reputation and reach.
Assist the Risk Center and External Affairs management team, as required. 
Other ad hoc administrative, coordination, and communications tasks, as required.




Skills and Experience



ACLED is seeking applicants who have the following skills and experience:

Experience in conflict analysis.
Master’s Degree in Political Science/Social Sciences/Geography/Conflict Studies or other subjects relevant to this position.
At least three (3) years of experience working within a research environment.
Proven experience working with ACLED data (Preferable).
Demonstrated experience with Tableau software and GIS. Knowledge of other data analysis software and programming languages is a plus.
Fluency in English.
Strong critical thinking and analysis skills.
Strong writing and editing skills are a plus.
A high level of attention to detail and the ability to provide, receive, and incorporate feedback.
Experience working in a team, to tight deadlines, and with autonomy.




Terms and Conditions

Start Date: ASAP
Salary Band: 42,000 - 45,000 USD/year
Type of Position: Remote, Full-Time Employment




Applications:



To apply, please submit:



A CV and cover letter detailing your qualifications, experience, and salary requirements. 
Provide at least four examples of your previous work, with at least one example each of:
A data ‘story’ including a description and explanation of the data and the resulting visualization.
A map based data visualization.
An AI assisted data investigation and visualization.
A carousel, interactive timeline, or infographic.


Further information on ACLED is available online at acleddata.com. Applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis, and interested candidates are advised to apply early.