Software Undergrad Engineering Internships
United States
Students


Submit Resume
Summary
Posted:
May 21, 2026
Role Number:
200664785-3810
Imagine what you could do here. At Apple, extraordinary ideas have a way of becoming phenomenal products, services, and customer experiences very quickly. Bring passion and dedication to your job and there's no telling what you could accomplish. 

At Apple, our software engineers are the brains behind some of the industry’s biggest breakthroughs!  From consumer products and platforms like macOS, iOS, Siri, and several Apple Services, to cloud services like iCloud and Apple Music, to the business software and tools that power Apple's internal operations and enterprise customers, our teams are on the front line of our constant charge toward innovation. 

Apple is seeking highly motivated, engineering students with a strong background in either Back-End Engineering, Core OS, Web Development, and iOS and/or macOS app Development to join its team of highly skilled software engineers.
Description
Some Software Engineering responsibilities may include:

Back-end development — You’ll help build the features that Apple users love, like Siri, Apple Music, iCloud, Apple Maps, by presenting data to the user-facing applications.

Design and build - You’ll help develop fully integrated operating systems that combine hardware, software, and services into a single Apple experience

User Experience (UX) — Assist in building elegant UX experiences that are simple, intuitive, and impactful. They are working in a constantly evolving environment and performing effectively under dynamic fast-paced conditions.

User Interface (UI) - You will work with the UX team, back-end engineers and other front end engineers to develop a web portal for building an end to end software development journey.

iOS and Web Development - You’ll help build web-based and iOS tools and applications to improve our products and do more for our customers. Our developers are responsible for crafting the direction of our products by considering the architecture, performance, testing, design, and implementation.

Information Systems & Technology (IS&T) - You’ll assist in producing  key business and technical infrastructure at Apple. You’ll build applications that improve the Apple Store  experience, develop solutions that enable customers to learn about and support their devices, and provide network bandwidth for our services around the world.

Information Security - Help protect Apple's information, including business, employee, and customer data wherever it goes. Our tools and services protect against threats that seek to compromise our systems, monitor the stability and security of our internal environment, and track emerging threats and vulnerabilities that might build an opportunity for an attacker. 

Engineers at Apple work on both UI level and lower-level implementation details. The successful intern candidate will work in an exciting, fast paced, dynamic, collaborative environment. They must be a hands-on, enthusiastic, self-motivated developer with strong initiative, a real passion for extraordinary user experiences, and an eye for details.
Minimum Qualifications
Pursuing an undergraduate (BS/BA) degree in Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering, Data Science, Design, Information Security or related fields.
At the end of the internship, you must return to school to continue your education or the internship must be the last requirement for you to graduate.
Preferred Qualifications
Strong object-oriented design skills, coupled with a deep knowledge of data structures and algorithms
Proficiency in one or more developer skills: Java, C/C++, PHP, Python, Ruby, Unix, MySQL, Clojure, Scala, Java Script, CSS, HTML5, Swift
Experience in sophisticated methodologies such as Data Modeling, Validation, Processing, MapReduce
Experience with distributed technologies such as HDFS, Spark, Golang, Hadoop, Mongo, Pig, Hive
Experience with web frameworks such as AngularJS, NodeJS, SproutCore
Experience with iOS and macOS developing in Swift, XCode or Objective-C
Client-Server protocol and API design Skills
Able to craft multi-functional requirements and translate them into practical engineering tasks
A fundamental knowledge of embedded processors, with in-depth knowledge of real time operating system concepts
Excellent debugging and critical thinking skills
Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills
Ability to work in a fast paced, team-based environment
Pay & Benefits
This posting is not for a specific job opening and by submitting your resume you are expressing interest in being contacted about this type of role at Apple in the future.