Security

Geopolitical Risk Analyst - Maritime and Transnational
Washington, DC

R000072506

Chevron is accepting online applications for the position of Geopolitical Risk Analyst - Maritime and Transnational through August 4th, 2026, at 11:59 p.m. (ET Time). The position is located in Washington D.C.

Global Security is charged with providing high-quality, cost-competitive, and reliable security services with operational excellence. The organization is committed to supporting its diverse customers and their business objectives by delivering programs to protect Chevron's people and assets, creating superior value for Chevron shareholders, customers, partners, employees, and the countries in which we operate. Outstanding individual and collective performance of the Global Security organization will help the Corporation achieve its vision—to be the global energy company most admired for its people, partnerships, and performance.

The Geopolitical Risk Analysis team informs global security and company decisions by providing strategic analysis of geopolitical and security risks, grounded in regional expertise and an understanding of Chevron’s businesses. We enhance the security of personnel and assets by providing impactful assessments and briefings to support existing operations and inform future business decisions.

Responsibilities for this position may include but are not limited to:

Proactively providing timely, strategic analysis of global maritime security, military issues, and other transnational threats that could impact Company personnel, operations, assets, and business interests.
Developing tailored analytic product lines designed to support internal clients and help inform business decisions.
Closely monitoring and assessing evolving global threats and potential crises, which may require working outside of normal business hours.
Liaising frequently with government and military counterparts and functional and industry experts.
Traveling frequently (25% of time), including overseas, to relevant company locations to assess the evolving risk landscape, understand key business challenges, and maintain collaborative relationships.
Contributing to the team’s range of analytic outputs, including geopolitical update briefings and scenario planning exercises, to help global security and the business understand the geopolitical risk environment.
Engaging regularly with Global Security’s regional managers and security advisors, contributing to the mitigation of risks through the company’s Security Risk Assessment Program.
Staying flexible and being willing to back up other geopolitical risk portfolios, monitoring regional issues and crafting assessments when needed.
Required Qualifications:

A minimum of seven years of experience as a professional analyst focused on maritime security and military issues, such as for the US military, government, a private-sector security or political risk enterprise, or think tanks.
Extensive subject matter expertise pertaining to geopolitics and global security, especially on maritime and military issues.
Excellent communication skills, oral and written.  
Strong interpersonal skills and ability to interface effectively with peers and senior management.
Ability to build and sustain successful relationships across organizations and cultures.
Ability to work independently but also collaborate effectively with other team members to support business needs.
Ability to adapt quickly and easily to changing priorities, meet tight deadlines, and manage multiple tasks at once.
A valid passport and willingness to travel internationally.
Preferred Qualifications:

Master's degree in a relevant field (such as international relations, security studies, regional studies, history, economics, or political science).
10+ years of experience analyzing maritime security and military issues and an understanding of commercial shipping issues.
Extensive network of relevant subject matter experts on international maritime security and military issues.
Experience working with large data sets and analytic visualization or cartography skills, such as with ArcGIS.
Previous experience living and working overseas on geopolitical or security issues.
Significant understanding of, or previous experience in, the energy industry.
Ability to obtain U.S. government security clearance. 
Relocation Options:

Relocation may be considered. 

International Considerations:

Expatriate assignments will not be considered. 

Chevron regrets that it is unable to sponsor employment Visas or consider individuals on time-limited Visa status for this position. 

Regulatory Disclosure for US Positions

The compensation and reference to benefits for this role is listed on this posting in compliance with applicable law. Please note that the compensation and benefits listed below are only applicable for U.S. payroll offers. 
The anticipated salary range for this position is $158,600 – $237,800. The selected candidate’s compensation will be determined based on their skills, experience, and qualifications. 
Chevron offers competitive compensation and benefits programs which include, but is not limited to, variable pay, health care coverage, retirement plan, protection coverage, time off and leave programs, training and development opportunities and a range of allowances connected to specific work situations. Details are available at http://hr2.chevron.com/( opens in new window). 
Washington, DC