Cartographer
Central Intelligence Agency

Summary
Cartographers produce maps to support intelligence analysis for senior policymakers, including the President of the United States.

Duties
Help

As a Cartographer at CIA, you will research, design, and produce maps to support CIA intelligence analysis. You will receive internal training and participate in external workshops and conferences.

You will work with colleagues to define project requirements, offer insight on visual presentation, and provide substantive input including geographic features and Board on Geographic Names rulings.

Requirements
Help
Conditions of employment
You must be physically in the United States or one of its territories when you submit your resume via MyLINK.
You must be registered for the Selective Service, if applicable.
You must be a U.S. citizen and at least 18 years of age (dual-national US citizens are eligible).
You must be willing to move to the Washington, DC area.
You must successfully complete a thorough medical and psychological exam, a polygraph interview, and a comprehensive background investigation.
For further information, please visit: https://www.cia.gov/careers/how-we-hire/
Qualifications
Minimum Qualifications

Interested candidates should be passionate about the ideals of our American republic, committed to upholding the rule of law and the U.S. Constitution, and committed to improving the efficiency of the Federal government. Hiring decisions will not be based on race, sex, color, religion, or national origin.

Ability to collect, analyze, and integrate geographic and substantive data into an effectively designed cartographic product
Knowledge of cartographic design principles including color and symbology theory, map projections, thematic and statistical mapping, topographic and reference mapping, display hierarchies, typography, and data generation
Knowledge of GIS principles including data types; data layers; basic geographic, analytic and statistical functions; geographic coordinate systems; and data formatting
Ability to work periodic shift work, including nights and weekends
Ability to meet the minimum requirements for joining CIA, including U.S. citizenship and a background investigation
Ability to meet the minimum requirements for joining CIA, including U.S. citizenship and a background investigation
Desired Qualifications
Proficient in the use of, or be rapidly gaining expertise with the software, hardware, and platforms necessary for cartographic, graphic, and web/mobile production, such as some of the following:
GIS
ESRI ArcGIS
HTML
Programming languages
Avenza MAPublisher
Intergraph GeoMedia Pro
Microsoft Office
Adobe software such as Illustrator, InDesign, Photoshop, and Acrobat
Experience with the Adobe suite of software and web and mobile conveyance
Education

Bachelor's degree in one of the following:
Cartography
Geography
Geospatial Information Systems (GIS)
At least a 3.0 GPA on a 4-point scale is preferred, but exceptions are made for extenuating circumstances
Additional information
Candidates should be committed to improving the efficiency of the Federal government, passionate about the ideals of our American republic, and committed to upholding the rule of law and the United States Constitution.