GIS Asset Management Specialist - Public Works
Next Job
Apply for Job
Job ID62457
Job Category
Administrative & Clerical 
Full/Part TimeFull-Time
Regular/TemporaryRegular
Add to My Favorite Jobs
Email this Job
  
ABOUT THIS POSITION
The City of Phoenix Public Works Department strives to improve the quality of life in Phoenix through the efficient delivery of outstanding solid waste, fleet, facilities, and energy management services.

This position edits and maintains the department's Geographic Information System (GIS) using the ESRI suite of products to ensure a comprehensive record of facility assets with our Enterprise Asset Management Solution. GIS enables the city to visualize and manage assets by their spatial location. 

Responsibilities include:

Interpreting facility condition assessment data historical building drawings, and asset databases, and integrating this information into the GIS to maintain an accurate inventory of facility assets. 
Conducting mapping research, both in the field and in the office, to resolve conflicting information and ensure data accuracy.
Limited project coordination.
Application development; and collaboration with City staff.
SALARY
Pay Range: $25.43 to $45.67 per hour.

Hiring Range: $25.43 to $41.42 per hour.

Pay Range Explanation:

Pay range is the entire compensation range for the position classification.
Hiring range is an estimate of where you can receive an offer. The actual salary offer will carefully consider a wide range of factors, including your skills, qualifications, experience, education, licenses, training, and internal equity.
Internal Only: Please understand that this is pay grade 353. If selected, your salary offer will be based on the applicable promotion or demotion worksheet in accordance with the City Pay Ordinance.

Promotions occur when the last two digits of the pay grade increase.
Demotions occur when the last two digits of the pay grade decrease.
Lateral transfers occur when there is no change to the last two digits of the pay grade.
When there is a change in the first digit of the pay grade, there may also be a change to your classification or unit. 
Your job classification can be found in eCHRIS > Personal Details under your name, located in the top left section of the page.  

The pay grade and classification/unit of your current position may be found by looking up your job title on the job description page.

BENEFITS
A comprehensive benefits package is offered which includes:

Traditional pension with employer and employee contributions, click here for more details: Pension Information.
401(a) and 457 plans with employer contributions.
Choice of generous medical HMO, PPO, or HSA/HDHP plans.
Medical enrollment includes a monthly $150 City contribution to a Post-Employment Health Plan.
Wellness incentive of up to $720 annually.
Dental, vision, and life insurance options.
Employer paid long-term disability.
Free Bus/light rail pass.
Tuition reimbursement program up to $6,500 per year.
Paid time off includes 13.5 paid holidays, 12 vacation days, and 15 sick days and personal leave days.
Paid Parental Leave for eligible employees up to 480 hours (12 weeks) of paid leave for the birth, adoption, or foster care placement of a child during a 12-month period.
Federal Student Loan Forgiveness offered through Savi.
For more details, visit: Unit 003 Benefits

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS
Associate's degree or equivalent course work at a technical or vocational school, in geographic information systems, geography, planning, landscape architecture, civil engineering, computer science, or a related field.
OR Two years of experience working with geographic information systems.
Other combinations of experience and education that meet the minimum requirements may be substituted.
All finalists for positions are subject to a criminal background check applicable to the department or position.
This positions require the use of personal or City vehicles on City business. Individuals must be physically capable of operating the vehicles safely, possess a valid driver's license and have an acceptable driving record. Use of a personal vehicle for City business will be prohibited if the employee is not authorized to drive a City vehicle or if the employee does not have personal insurance coverage.
For information regarding pre-screening and driving positions, click here.
The City job description can be found here.
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS
The minimum qualifications listed above, plus:

Experience with:

Facility or Property asset management.
Using an enterprise work and asset management system software application.
ESRI software including ArcGIS for Desktop and its extensions.
CAD or other GIS land base Maintenance software.
Working with and analyzing data in excel JMP or other statistical software programs.
RECRUITMENT DATES
Recruitment closes September 13, 2026. All materials must be received by 11:59 p.m. on this date.

This is a position-based recruitment and will not result in any ongoing eligibility list. This recruitment and any selection processes resulting from this recruitment may be used to fill other related vacancies within the organization now or in the near future.

HOW TO APPLY
Apply online by completing the required information and attaching, as one document, your cover letter and resume. Please include your experience as it relates to the qualifications stated above. Only the highest qualified may be posted to the eligible to hire list. The results of the resume screening process will be sent to your primary email address.

WE ARE HERE TO HELP
Job interviews may be held by video or audio conference.
If you are in need of computer resources, click here for free options.
Arizona at Work has frequent classes to help with resume writing, interviewing skills, and general career guidance. Click here for more information.
Explore other Employment Opportunities with the City of Phoenix.
Subscribe to receive e-mail notifications about new employment opportunities.
If you require assistance at any stage of the application process due to an accessibility issue, please contact the Human Resources Department by phone at (602) 495-5700 or by text at (800) 367-8939. You may also fill out and submit a Reasonable Accommodation Request Form.
REFERENCE
GIS Technician, JC:09850, ID# 62457, 8/31/26, USM, AJ, Benefits:003

Building the Phoenix of tomorrow.

#DoWorkThatMakesPhoenixWork

City of Phoenix is an equal opportunity employer. AmeriCorps, Peace Corps, and other national service alumni who meet the required qualifications are encouraged to apply.