FMRP Site Facilitator
Salary
$16.91 - $18.75 Hourly

Location 
Fort Missoula Regional Park (FMRP)

Job Type
Regular, Intermittent

Job Number
00752

Department
Parks & Recreation

Division
P&R Recreation

Opening Date
09/08/2026

Closing Date
9/14/2026 11:59 PM Mountain

Description
Benefits
Overview
This position is open ONLY to current Missoula Parks and Recreation employee. 

The FMRP Site Facilitator position provides support for various recreational programs, including sport tournaments, leagues, and special events at Fort Missoula Regional Park (FMRP).

To Apply: All applicants must submit the City of Missoula application.

Applications will be accepted until Monday, September 14, 2026, at 11:59 PM MST.

Resumes will not be reviewed; all details must be entered on the application. 
Essential Functions
FMRP FACILITATOR I:

Greet patrons and attend to the individual needs of each activity/event.
Assist with facilitating the implementation of community-based sport programs and special events.  
Receive complaints, injuries, accidents, and incidents while on site; report all occurrences to FMRP Facilitator II and the Recreation leadership team.
Assist with monitoring facility, event, and program operations to ensure environment is safe, clean, and compliant with policies, standards, and league guidelines.
Maintain equipment on site, including set up, tear down, cleaning and transporting to different locations.
Perform other duties as assigned, based on training and qualifications
FMRP FACILITATOR II:
Greet patrons and attend to the individual needs of each activity/event.
Facilitate the implementation of community-based sport programs, and special events.  
Manage complaints, injuries, accidents, and incidents while on site; report all occurrences to the Recreation leadership team.
Monitor facility, event, and program operations to ensure environment is safe, clean, and compliant with policies, standards, and league guidelines.
Maintain equipment on site, including set up, tear down, cleaning and transporting to different locations.
Assist with supporting and guiding various staff. 
Maintain accuracy of all necessary paperwork. 
Perform other duties as assigned, based on training and qualifications
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities
Knowledge of policies, procedures, and practices of facilitating recreation/sport programs and special events, including program implementation, and risk mitigation.
Knowledge of rules and strategies of various adult sports and recreational activities with the ability to interpret and apply City adapted rules and regulations.
Knowledge of and ability to promote department safety considerations, City safety policies, OSHA standards and guidelines, and the Americans for Disabilities Act.
Skill in following oral and written instructions.
Skill in communicating, in person and writing, with the proven ability to establish and maintain positive effective working relationships with diverse individuals.
Ability to coordinate logistics for multiple programs.
Ability to lead and work with both adults and youth of all ages.
Ability to participate in a customer focused and team-oriented environment, contributing as lead and collaborator, when necessary.
Ability to maintain and exhibit integrity and discretion in handling confidential and sensitive information.
Ability to maintain and foster a culture of professionalism, adhere to departmental and City standards and specifications, and support a positive team environment.
Ability to resolve conflicts with facilitating outcomes while maintaining a calm demeanor.
Ability to learn departmental and City of Missoula practices and procedures.
Working Conditions:
Position requires the ability to lift 50 lbs. or less.
Work environment may involve occasional exposure to unavoidable seasonal weather conditions, occupational hazards, biohazards, and physical risks, which require following basic safety precautions.
Duties may require driving City vehicles to transport youth of all ages to various recreational sites and facilities.
Qualifications and Additional Application Materials
ALL POSITIONS

Any combination of training and experience equivalent to one (1) year of recreation experience, or another relevant field. 
Must be of legal age to perform the duties of the position.
Must be able to pass a fingerprint background check (if 18 years old or older).
May require a valid Montana driver’s license with a verified acceptable driving record, or the ability to obtain one within 60 days of hire.  
FMRP FACILITATOR II:
Must have 6 months experience facilitating sports tournaments, leagues, and/or special events, such as: weddings, parties, festivals, car shows, concerts, etc.