Adult Sports Facilitator
Salary
$15.99 - $18.75 Hourly

Location 
Fort Missoula Regional Park (FMRP)

Job Type
Regular, Intermittent

Job Number
00751

Department
Parks & Recreation

Division
P&R Recreation

Opening Date
09/08/2026

Closing Date
9/14/2026 11:59 PM Mountain

Description
Benefits
Overview
This position is open ONLY to current Missoula Parks and Recreation employee. 

The Recreation Program Facilitator positions facilitate a variety of recreational programs for adults.

To Apply: All applicants must submit the City of Missoula application.

Applications will be accepted until Monday, September 14, 2026, at 11:59 PM MST.

Resumes will not be reviewed; all details must be entered on the application. 
Essential Functions
RECREATION PROGRAM FACILITATOR I:  

Greet participants, parents, and various other patrons; attend to the individual needs of each activity.
Provide support with facilitating various recreation programs, such as: sports, outdoor activities, arts & crafts, games & activities, field trips, etc.
Assist with special events.
Respond to various inquiries, including providing program information to participants and parents.
Perform other duties as assigned, based on training and qualifications.
RECREATION PROGRAM FACILITATOR II: 
Facilitate various recreation programs such as: sports, outdoor activities, arts & crafts, games & activities, field trips, etc.
Assist with managing recreation group dynamics.
Maintain equipment on site, including set up, tear down, cleaning and transporting to different locations.
Perform other duties as assigned, based on training and qualifications.
RECREATION PROGRAM FACILITATOR III:
Lead and support recreation staff with facilitating various recreation programs.
Provide support with facilitating advanced recreational programs, such as: ropes course, rock climbing, skateboarding, Nordic skiing, backpacking, biking, rafting, etc.
Promote safety and positive sportsmanship for participants.
Assist with managing recreation group dynamics.
Maintain recreation equipment and supplies to ensure safety for participants.
Perform other duties as assigned, based on training and qualifications.
RECREATION PROGRAM FACILITATOR IV:
Maintain and promote a safe and positive environment for staff and participants.
Lead and support recreation staff with facilitating various recreation programs.
Facilitate advanced recreational programs, such as: ropes course, rock climbing, skateboarding, Nordic skiing, backpacking, biking, rafting, REACH MORE, etc.
Assist with implementing various tools, ideas, and facilitated activities for recreation staff to use at the spur of the moment. 
Provide support with the development of program plans for camp days.
Maintain all equipment and supplies to ensure safety of participants.
Assist with managing recreation group dynamics, including providing support and guidance to various recreation staff.
Maintain accuracy of all necessary paperwork.
Perform other duties as assigned, based on training and qualifications.
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities
Knowledge of policies, procedures, and practices of facilitating recreation programs, including program development and implementation, staff management, training, and risk mitigation.
Knowledge of and ability to promote department safety considerations, City safety policies, OSHA standards and guidelines, and the Americans for Disabilities Act.
Skill in following oral and written instructions.
Skill in gathering data for analyzing program efficiencies and performance.
Skill in multitasking in a fast-paced environment, while providing effective customer service.
Skill in planning and leading various recreation activities, including sports, crafts, summer camps, etc. 
Skill in communicating, in person and writing, with the proven ability to establish and maintain positive effective working relationships with diverse individuals.
Ability to coordinate logistics for multiple programs.
Ability to lead and work with both adults and youth of all ages.
Ability to participate in a customer focused and team-oriented environment, contributing as lead and collaborator, when necessary.
Ability to maintain and exhibit integrity and discretion in handling confidential and sensitive information.
Ability to maintain and foster a culture of professionalism, adhere to departmental and City standards and specifications, and support a positive team environment.
Ability to resolve conflicts with facilitating outcomes while maintaining a calm demeanor.
Ability to learn departmental and City of Missoula practices and procedures.
Working Conditions:
Positions require the ability to lift 50 lbs. or less.
Work environment may involve occasional exposure to unavoidable seasonal weather conditions, occupational hazards, biohazards, and physical risks, which require following basic safety precautions.
Duties may require driving City vehicles to transport youth of all ages to various recreational sites and facilities.
Qualifications and Additional Application Materials
ALL POSITIONS

Must be of legal age to perform the duties of the positions.
Must have CPR/AED certification, or the ability to obtain within two (2) weeks of hire.
Must be able to pass a fingerprint background check. (if 18 years old or older)
May require a valid Montana driver’s license with a verified acceptable driving record, or the ability to obtain one within 60 days of hire.
Wilderness First Aid Certificate, preferred.
RECREATION PROGRAM FACILITATOR II
Any combination of training and experience equivalent to three (3) months experience in recreation, working with youth, or another relevant field.
RECREATION PROGRAM FACILITATOR III
Any combination of training and experience equivalent to six (6) months experience in recreation, working with youth and adults, or another relevant field.
RECREATION PROGRAM FACILITATOR IV
Any combination of training and experience equivalent to one (1) year experience in recreation, working with youth and adults, or another relevant field.