Summer 2027 College Internship - Analysis Career Field
Next Job
Apply for Job
Job ID20260285
Location
Springfield, VA;St Louis, MO
Full/Part Time 
Regular/TemporaryTemporary
Add to Favorite Jobs
Email this Job
  
External Header
Source: External Applicants Only
Open: 2026-08-31
Closed: 2026-09-30
Band: 01/02
Location: Springfield, VA, St Louis, MO
Cover Letter
Applicants are not required to submit a cover letter for employment consideration with the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.  However, a cover letter is recommended.  Applicants will have the option to attach a cover letter in the Qualifications - Attachments step of the online application.
Pay Band, Salary Range - Ext
2026 DC Salary Chart (Step 10 Max):
Band 1   $30,249 - $75,059
Band 2   $57,736 - $101,097

2026 St. Louis Salary Chart (Step 10 Max):
Band 1   $27,108 - $67,264
Band 2   $51,740 - $90,597
Permanent Change in Station
PERMANENT CHANGE IN STATION: PCS expenses are not authorized.
NGA Marketing Message
The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) is the world leader in Geospatial Intelligence. We analyze imagery and data from many sources and incorporate it into visual displays of essential information for use in national defense, homeland security and safety of navigation. The extraordinary talents and skills of our teams of analysts and other professionals are vital to our success as the worldwide provider of GEOINT.
Know the World, Show the Way...from Seabed to Space!
Assignment Description
ASSIGNMENT DESCRIPTION: College Interns perform a variety of functions and tasks in support of the organization to which they are assigned. Work assignments will involve problem identification, analysis, and resolution. Specific duties may include the preparation and presentation of briefings directly related to work assigned. They must be in attendance at and enrolled in a graduate, baccalaureate, or associate degree program. Students are placed on one-year temporary appointments, which can be extended in one-year increments until the student graduates. Their appointment terminates upon graduation or when the student no longer attends school, even if the expiration date on the current appointment has not been reached.
Additional Information
The Analysis career field would be a good fit for you if you're majoring in fields such as Data Science, Geospatial Science, Geography, Computer Science, Statistics, Imagery Science, Remote Sensing, or National Security Studies. As an intern in the Analysis Career Field, you will join a data-centric workforce dedicated to strengthening the nation through geospatial intelligence. This field is focused on developing intelligence officers who can execute the analytic mission by applying their skills to real-world national security issues.

While your specific placement will be determined based on mission needs, you will have the opportunity to be exposed to a variety of critical roles within the Analysis Career Field, including:
- Geospatial Analyst: Creates, analyzes, and interprets spatial data to produce geospatial intelligence that supports U.S. military and policymaker interests.
- Imagery Analyst: Analyzes and interprets imagery from various sources to understand the activities and interests of countries, regions, and non-state entities.
- Imagery Scientist: Enhances the utility of imagery data by applying scientific approaches, advanced techniques, and software to extract intelligence and geospatial information.
- GEOINT Hybrid Analyst: Blends the tradecrafts of analysis with capabilities and skills in data analysis and scientific fields to tackle complex intelligence problems.

Transcript Upload Instructions: All applicants must upload proof of current enrollment as part of their application. This includes your most recent unofficial transcript showing the date, university information, and GPA. Freshmen may upload a letter of enrollment from the university in place of a transcript. Failure to upload this documentation will result in disqualification from consideration. Accepted applicants must also submit an official transcript to Student Programs once the relevant semester (e.g., Spring 2027) is complete.

For more information on NGA occupations and mission sets, check out our Student Brochure at: https://www.nga.mil/assets/files/Student_Brochure.pdf
Qualifications Mandatory
MANDATORY QUALIFICATION CRITERIA: For this particular job, applicants must meet all competencies reflected under the Mandatory Qualification Criteria to include education (if required). Online resumes must demonstrate qualification by providing specific examples and associated results, in response to the announcement’s mandatory criteria specified in this vacancy announcement:

1. At least 18 years of age at time of application
2. Must be currently enrolled at least part-time in an accredited two-year or four-year college or university degree program (associate's, bachelor's, graduate, or post-graduate) with a graduation date of October 2027 or later. Applicants scheduled to graduate prior to October 2027 are ineligible unless accepted and enrolled in a subsequent degree program. Applicants are required to show proof of enrollment by uploading their current unofficial transcript that includes the date, university information, and GPA. Freshmen may provide a letter of enrollment from the university in place of a transcript
3. A GPA of 3.0 or higher, shown on the most recent transcript that is uploaded to this application. Freshmen are required to achieve a fall semester GPA of 3.0 or higher, verified by submitting an updated transcript or letter in the spring. All applicants, especially freshmen, who do not meet the 3.0 GPA requirement in the fall semester will have their offers rescinded
4. Experience presenting clear verbal updates or explanations of routine information in one-on-one or group settings
5. Experience identifying and gathering the data necessary to resolve routine problems
6. Experience explaining fundamental AI concepts and/or technologies used for routine tasks

EDUCATION REQUIREMENT: Incumbent must be enrolled in an associate degree program, baccalaureate, or graduate program.
Special Info External
As a condition of employment at NGA, persons being considered for employment must meet NGA fitness for employment standards.

- U.S. Citizenship
- Security Clearance - Top Secret /Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI)
- Polygraph & Drug Test
- Direct Deposit
- Trial Period during which we will evaluate your fitness and whether your continued employment advances the public interest. We may consider: performance conduct; needs and interests of the agency; and whether your continued employment would advance organizational goals of the agency or the Government and the efficiency of the Federal service
Applicant Evaluation Process
APPLICANT EVALUATION PROCESS:

1) All applicants will be evaluated using the Mandatory Qualification Criteria,
2) Qualified applicants will then be evaluated by an expert or panel of experts using a combination of qualification criteria to determine the best-qualified candidates,
3) Best-qualified applicants may then be further evaluated through an interview process.

Military retiree applicants, if selected, may be impacted by the 180-day appointment restrictions of DODI 1402.01. HD personnel will provide additional information if applicable.

Applicants are encouraged to carefully review the Assignment Description, Additional Information Provided By the Selecting Official, and the Qualification Requirements; and then construct their resumes to highlight their most relevant and significant experience and education for this job opportunity. This description should include examples that detail the level and complexity of the performed work. Applicants are encouraged to provide any education or degree information referenced in the announcement that is relevant. If education is listed as a mandatory requirement, only degrees obtained from an institution accredited by an accrediting organization recognized by the Secretary, US Department of Education will be accepted. You must use the NGA resume builder and limit your resume to 2 pages.

In accordance with section 9902(h) of title 5, United States Code, annuitants reemployed in the Department of Defense shall receive full annuity and salary upon appointment. They shall not be eligible for retirement contributions, participation in the Thrift Savings Plan, or a supplemental or re-determined annuity for the reemployment period. Discontinued service retirement annuitants (i.e., retired under section 8336(d)(1) or 8414(b)(1)(A) of title 5, United States Code) appointed to the Department of Defense may elect to be subject to retirement provisions of the new appointment as appropriate. (See DoD Instruction 1400.25, Volume 300). Reemployed annuitants must meet additional selection criteria as outlined in the DODI 1400.25, v300.

All candidates will be considered without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, marital status, disability, or sexual orientation.

NGA provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities. Applications will only be accepted online. If you need a reasonable accommodation for any part of the application and hiring process, please notify us at recruitment@nga.mil. The decision on granting reasonable accommodation will be on a case-by-case basis.
DCIPS Statement
NGA utilizes all processes and procedures of the Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel System (DCIPS). Non-executive NGA employees are assigned to five distinct pay bands based on the type and scope of work performed. The employee's base salary is established within their assigned pay band based on their unique qualifications. A performance pay process is conducted each year to determine a potential base pay salary increase and/or bonus. An employee's annual performance evaluation is a key factor in the performance pay process.

This position is a DCIPS position in the Excepted Service under 10 U.S.C. 1601. DoD Components with DCIPS positions apply Veterans' Preference to preference eligible candidates as defined by Section 2108 of Title 5 USC, in accordance with the procedures provided in DoD Instruction 1400.25, Volume 2005, DCIPS Employment and Placement. If you are an external applicant claiming veterans' preference, as defined by Section 2108 of Title 5 U.S.C., you must self-identify your eligibility.
Benefits
Pay is only part of the compensation you will earn working for the Federal Government. We offer a broad array of benefits programs and family friendly flexibilities to meet the needs of you and your family.

For more information on the array of benefits programs, please visit https://www.nga.mil/careers/Benefits_&_Pay.html.
How To Apply
Application submission involves applying using NGA's online application process at <a href="https://careers.nga.mil">NGA Careers Portal</a>. Additional information concerning NGA's hiring process can be found by visiting <a href="https://www.nga.mil/careers/Hiring_Process.html">NGA Hiring Process</a>.

All announcements close at 11:59PM EDT on the closing date listed. Be sure to complete and submit your application by that time in order to be considered.

ONLY ELECTRONIC SUBMISSIONS WILL BE ACCEPTED.

Both applicants for employment and current employees of NGA are entitled to request religious accommodations from generally applicable employment-related rules and requirements, so long as the accommodation requested would not result in an undue hardship to the conduct of NGA’s business.
What To Expect Next
After visiting the <a href="https://careers.nga.mil">NGA Careers Portal</a> and applying via NGA's online application process, applicants can follow their status via that same NGA online application functionality. Several other topics relating to what is involved in the hiring process and how long it takes can be found by visiting the <a href="https://www.nga.mil/careers/Hiring_Process.html">NGA Hiring Process</a>.
Special Requirements
You must be able to obtain and retain a Top Secret security clearance with access to SCI. In addition, you are subject to a Counterintelligence Polygraph examination in order to maintain access to Top Secret information. All employees are subject to a periodic examination on a random basis in order to determine continued eligibility. Refusal to take the examination may result in denial of access to Top Secret information, SAP, or unescorted access to SCIFs.

Employees with SCI access and who are under NGA cognizance are required to submit a Security Financial Disclosure Report, SF-714, on an annual basis in order to determine continued eligibility. Failure to comply may negatively impact continued access to Top Secret information, Information Systems, SAP, or unescorted access to SCIFs.