Control Risks is looking to hire an Open Source Intelligence Analyst to support a premier client of ours. The Open Source Intelligence Analyst will conduct research and provide intelligence to the threat management team in a timely manner to support the investigation and mitigation of threatening incidents or behaviors. OSINT analysts also support Executive Protection and employee, facility, event safety and security by providing persistent situational awareness research and support. 
Utilize OSINT research methodology for real-time situational awareness and analysis. 
 
Monitor worldwide events; identify events with the potential to impact the Client's assets, executives, and operations. Examples of relevant event categories include, but are not limited to: natural disasters, transportation disruptions, political instability, terrorism, and crime 
 
Intensive analysis of data collected and produce timely, useful, and custom-tailored intelligence reports, threat assessments, and Person of Interest (POI) investigation reports, etc. 
 
Identify POIs who exhibit concerning, unwanted, or violent threatening behavior toward the Client, its executives, employees, or community 
 
Research, evaluate, and assess and continually monitor POIs and their activity and disseminate information to Client stakeholders as needed. 
 
Situational awareness coverage for Client events, employee travel, and executive protection 
 
Draft and review concise notifications for distribution to the Client's decision-makers and global security leaders 
 
Identify potential risks and negative sentiment on social media, news sites, forums etc. to provide protective intelligence in support of executive security. 
 
Collaborate with a cross-functional team of other global security professionals in support of the TAMs 24/7/365 operations and develop effective relationships with other stakeholders 


Requirements

 
1-2 years of experience or relevant education (bachelor's degree in history, political science, international relations, intelligence analysis, criminal justice, regional studies, or a related discipline; master's degree strongly preferred) 
 
Experience with OSINT methodology 
 
Broad knowledge of geopolitical affairs, and global awareness of influences on business goals and strategies 
 
Attention to detail, with the ability to anticipate trends which may have an impact on the organisation, extending to environment and people 
 
Ability to interpret high volumes of data, from multiple sources 
 
The ability to compile concise and accurate reporting, using the appropriate language for its audience 
 
Work well under pressure in moments of emergency response 
 
Responsive to changing environments and adaptable to unpredictable circumstances 
 
Strong client focus and the ability to build and maintain relationships 
 
Excellent research, analytical, writing, and verbal presentation skills 
 
Excellent skills, in MS office, and confident to learn new systems 
 
A team player who works professionally with colleagues and stakeholders at all levels 
 
An excellent understanding of client and business confidentiality 
 
Cultural awareness and ability to work alongside a global team 
 
Proactive and confident in articulating ideas with peers across organization 
 
Ability to demonstrate resilience and perseverance in difficult situations 
 
Additional ad hoc requests 

The base salary range for this position in California or NYC is $65,000-$75,000 per year. Exact compensation offered may vary depending on job-related knowledge, skills, and experience. This information is provided per California SB 1162 and the NYC Wage Transparency Law.
Control Risks is committed to a diverse environment and is proud to be an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, gender, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, national origin, genetics, disability, age or veteran status. If you require any reasonable adjustments to be made in order to participate fully in the interview process, please let us know and we will be happy to accommodate your needs.
Control Risks participates in the E-Verify program to confirm employment authorization of all newly hired employees. The E-Verify process is completed during new hire onboarding and completion of the Form I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification, at the start of employment. E-Verify is not used as a tool to pre-screen candidates. For more information on E-Verify, please visit www.uscis.gov.

Benefits

 
Control Risks offers a competitively positioned compensation and benefits package that is transparent and summarized in the full job offer.
 
We operate a discretionary bonus scheme that incentivizes, and rewards individuals based on company and individual performance 
 
 Control Risks supports hybrid working arrangements, wherever possible, that emphasize the value of in-person time together - in the office and with our clients - while continuing to support flexible and remote working.