Global Conflict Analyst
Department David Rockefeller Studies Program City Washington State DC Min USD $63,000.00/Yr. Max USD $70,000.00/Yr.
Position Summary
CFR’s David Rockefeller Studies Program is one of the country’s largest foreign policy think tanks with a widely respected and influential research staff. CFR’s Wachenheim Center for Peace and Security (WCPS) is seeking a global conflict analyst to help manage its award-winning Global Conflict Tracker (GCT), and contribute to other work within the Center. They will report to WCPS’s director and collaborate with other WCPS staff members, including other GCT analysts and interns. 

 

This position is based in CFR’s Washington, DC office at least three days per week. Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays are considered institutional anchor days where all staff are required to be onsite. Effective Monday, September 14, 2026, CFR employees will be based on-site at least four days per week. CFR’s remote working schedule is subject to change.

Essential Functions/Responsibilities
Conduct research on ongoing and emerging conflicts, with a primary focus on Africa and the Middle East.
Contribute to the development of new data visualization products and interactive features for the GCT.
Track and fact-check news related to GCT pages.
Edit and proofread content.
Create social media and newsletter content to promote the GCT.
Track and manage the budget for projects related to improving and updating the GCT, including monitoring grant information, drafting grant reports and proposals, creating and updating Excel spreadsheets, and preparing vouchers for reimbursement.
Assisting the WCPS team and other fellows within Studies with other projects as needed, including potentially coordinating events, shepherding reports, planning travel, or other logistical support.
Perform any other duties or tasks as assigned or required.
Minimum Qualifications
Education

Bachelor’s degree in security studies, international relations, area studies, or a related field; Master’s degree preferred, but not required. 
Experience

A minimum of 3 years of related work experience.
Knowledge/familiarity with conflict dynamics in one or more regions, preferably Africa and the Middle East.
Familiarity with conflict-related data sources.
Proficiency with data visualization tools (Datawrapper, ArcGIS, QGIS) and data analysis.
Experience with rigorous sourcing and fact-checking.
Experience with website content management.
Related Skills & Other Requirements

Ability to produce clear, policy-relevant analysis for non-specialist audiences.
Strong interpersonal and teamwork skills, including the ability to manage interns and delegate tasks.
Excellent time management and project management skillsCreativity and flexibility.
Attention to detail.
Required Application Materials
Please submit a résumé and cover letter stating your interest in the position.

Compensation and Benefits
The full-time annual compensation range for this position is $63,000 – $70,000, depending on experience.
In addition to competitive salaries, the Council on Foreign Relations offers a benefits package that is among the best offered by nonprofit institutions today, including an award-winning health and wellness program, an on-site fitness center, and generous leave policies and health insurance programs.
About CFR
The Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) is committed to fostering a foreign policy community in the United States that is more representative of American society, recognizing that diverse backgrounds and perspectives contribute to broader, more informed participation in the foreign policy debate and lead to an enhanced understanding of the world and the United States’ role therein. To that end, CFR is dedicated to continuing to advance diversity, equity, and inclusion throughout its work and workplace by building a more diverse membership and staff, producing and dispensing thoughtful analysis on a broad range of foreign policy issues, and developing relevant, wide-reaching programming that also serves to expand the foreign policy talent pipeline to underrepresented populations. 

Apply for this job online
Email this job to a friend
Share on your newsfeed
Application FAQs