CFR Blavatnik Internship Program-Spring 2027
City New York State NY Min USD $18.50/Hr. Max USD $18.50/Hr. Additional Locations US-DC-Washington
Overview
Founded in 1921, the Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) is a leading nonprofit membership organization, research center, and publisher, with headquarters in New York, an office in Washington, DC, and programs nationwide. It is dedicated to increasing America's understanding of the world and contributing ideas to U.S. foreign policy. CFR's 5,000+ members are leaders in international affairs and foreign policy. CFR also publishes Foreign Affairs, the preeminent magazine on global issues, and provides up-to-date information about the world and U.S. foreign policy on its award-winning website, CFR.org.

 

All who are selected to participate in CFR's Blavatnik Internship Program and Robina Franklin Williams Internship Program receive training in the field of foreign policy and international affairs as well as skills training in writing, research, program planning and much more.

 

Qualified candidates will have related experience that requires judgment, discretion, strong writing and editing skills, the ability to prioritize, and experience dealing with high-profile individuals. 

 

CFR interns are paid $18.50 an hour and are required to intern in-person in the New York or Washington, DC office about 14-18 hours per week. Some positions may be open to having a remote intern. More information can be found on the individual position descriptions available here.

 

Applications will be received until Sunday, October 11.

 

All internships are paid positions (no exceptions can be made on this). As such, all interns must have the legal right to work in the United States to be eligible for consideration.

 

For more information and answers to frequently asked questions, please visit our FAQ page.

 

Position Summary
In an ever-changing world, CFR's work as a leading nonpartisan resource for information and ideas about foreign policy is more important than ever. At CFR, Blavatnik interns participate in one of the foremost paid internship programs in the foreign policy arena. They do work that matters alongside smart and dedicated staff in a diverse and inclusive environment. Interns are paid a competitive hourly wage while gaining valuable experience through exposure to leading foreign policy experts. They are also offered professional development training as a foundation for future work in the field of foreign policy and international affairs. Internship opportunities are offered through the Blavatnik Internship Program and Robina Franklin Williams Internship Program. 

Essential Functions/Responsibilities
Assist CFR staff, including preparing relevant briefing materials 
Perform research as directed using approved CFR databases
Write, review, and edit CFR content
Support staff on administrative matters, including working cross-departmentally as needed
Support meetings and events under the direct supervision of CFR staff
For other specific duties for each internship, please reference the position descriptions available here.
Minimum Qualifications
Enrolled undergraduate or graduate student 
Interest in and knowledge of current foreign policy issues preferred
All applicants should have completed the equivalent of four semesters of college coursework (not including AP classes in high school) by the time they begin an internship
Excellent writing, editing, and proofreading skills
Outstanding written and verbal communication skills
Strong attention to detail and accuracy 
For other specific requirements for each internship, including language requirements, please reference the position descriptions available here.
 
Required Application Materials
Applications will be received until Sunday, October 11.
A complete application consists of a résumé and one (1) general cover letter. The cover letter should support the applicant's skills and abilities for all internship roles you wish to be considered for.
Please include a portfolio or links to relevant projects as part of your application for the Intern, Data Visualization position only.  
As part of your application, you will be asked to select the 5 teams that you are most interested in interning with. 
Compensation and Benefits
Interns are paid $18.50 an hour.
About CFR
CFR's internships are funded by the generous gifts of the Blavatnik Family Foundation, Robina Foundation, and the Franklin Williams Family.

 

The Council on Foreign Relations (CFR) is committed to fostering a foreign policy community in the United States that is more representative of American society, recognizing that diverse backgrounds and perspectives contribute to broader, more informed participation in the foreign policy debate and lead to an enhanced understanding of the world and the United States' role therein. To that end, CFR is dedicated to continuing to advance diversity, equity, and inclusion throughout its work and workplace by building a more diverse membership and staff, producing and dispensing thoughtful analysis on a broad range of foreign policy issues, and developing relevant, wide-reaching programming that also serves to expand the foreign policy talent pipeline to underrepresented populations.