Project Management Apprenticeship, February 2027 Start
corporate_fare
Google
place
New York, NY, USA
; Atlanta, GA, USA
; +3 more
bar_chart
Intern & Apprentice
info_outline
X
Please complete your application before September 21, 2026.
Participation in the Apprenticeship program requires that you are located in the United States for the duration of the apprenticeship program.

This Apprenticeship is intended for individuals who want to learn and develop entry-level technical and professional skills in project management.  If you’re currently pursuing or hold  a degree in a project management-related field, we encourage you to browse our University Graduate & Internship opportunities instead.

To start the application process, you will need an updated CV or resume  in English. Click on the “Apply” button on this page and provide the required material in the appropriate section(PDFs preferred):

In the “Resume Section:” attach one single document that contains an updated resume 

This role may also be located in our Playa Vista, CA campus.

Applicants in the County of Los Angeles: Qualified applications with arrest or conviction records will be considered for employment in accordance with the Los Angeles County Fair Chance Ordinance for Employers and the California Fair Chance Act.

Note: By applying to this position you will have an opportunity to share your preferred working location from the following: New York, NY, USA; Atlanta, GA, USA; Austin, TX, USA; Chicago, IL, USA; Los Angeles, CA, USA.

Minimum qualifications:
High School Diploma, GED equivalent, or practical experience.
Not currently enrolled in or completed a Bachelor's, Master's, or PhD degree program in a project management-related field.
Less than 1 year of relevant project management experience.


Preferred qualifications:
Experience using Google Workspace or a similar suite of productivity tools.
Ability to navigate ambiguous tasks, manage multiple priorities, find suitable solutions, and seek help/advice where appropriate.
Ability to work independently and collaborate with others to accomplish tasks.
Ability to be proactive and have a positive attitude.
Excellent communication, organizational, and problem solving skills, customer service capabilities, and critical thinking abilities.
Enthusiasm and passion for new technologies, demonstrated through personal projects and commitment to learning new skills.
About the job

The Google Project Management Apprenticeship is a Department of Labor Registered Apprenticeship Program and a structured learning and development opportunity. During the 18 month program, apprentices will participate in on-the-job training, related technical instruction, and career development workshops to develop professional and durable skills. Upon completion, apprentices receive a nationally-recognized credential, certified by the U.S. Department of Labor.
As a Project Management Apprentice at Google, you will develop the skills you need to pursue an entry-level career in project management.

Working alongside a team of Program or Project Managers at Google, you will gain exposure to project management tools and concepts. You will learn to plan, organize, and deliver projects efficiently by collaborating cross-functionally to drive execution, monitor progress, proactively address roadblocks, leveraging AI where applicable. Additionally, you’ll work towards building vital communication skills and developing relevant domain knowledge.

Apprentices are paid hourly for their time split between on-the-job training and related technical instruction, and are required to dedicate 40 hours each week to the program. Apprenticeships begin with an immersive virtual onboarding experience to build a foundational understanding of the profession. Apprentices will then join a Google team to train on-the-job, while continuing to engage in track-specific learnings and career workshops throughout the program. As part of the program, apprentices receive holistic career readiness support, and towards the end of the program will have the time and space to prepare for their next endeavor.

Find more details about apprenticeships and a list of FAQs on goo.gle/apprenticeships.

Individual pay is determined by factors including job-related skills, experience, and relevant education or training.

US: $54000 - $72000 (USD) + 0% bonus target

Learn more about benefits at Google.
Responsibilities
Partner cross-functionally to manage project tasks, workstreams, and delegation. 
Apply core project management skills like planning, tracking, process documentation, and reporting to demonstrate effective communication and collaboration. 
Ensure timely delivery by proactively addressing roadblocks, suggesting process improvements, and managing stakeholder expectations.
Practice responsible, effective, and innovative use of AI.