stomer and Partner Solutions Engineering Intern, BS/MS, Summer 2027
corporate_fare
Google
place
Mountain View, CA, USA
; Ann Arbor, MI, USA
; +27 more
bar_chart
Intern & Apprentice
info_outline
X
Please complete your application before October 9, 2026.

Applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis and it’s in a candidate’s best interest to apply early.

Timing on when you can hear back will vary and can take upwards of 90+ days. If you haven’t heard from us in three months about your application, we likely proceeded with other candidates for the role. 

Participation in the internship program requires that you are located in the United States for the duration of the internship program.

This internship is intended for students in their penultimate academic year, who are pursuing a Bachelor's or Master's degree program in Computer Science or a related field.

Google is a global company and, in order to facilitate efficient collaboration and communication globally, English proficiency is a requirement for this internship program.

To start the application process, you will need an updated CV or resume and a current unofficial or official transcript in English. Click on the “Apply” button on this page and provide the required materials in the appropriate sections (PDFs preferred):

In the “Resume Section:” attach an updated CV or resume.
Please ensure you’ve listed your anticipated graduation date (in MM/YY) 
In the “Education Section:” attach a current or recent unofficial or official transcript in English.
Under “Degree Status,” select “Now attending” to upload a transcript.
This role may also be located in our Playa Vista, CA campus.

Applicants in the County of Los Angeles: Qualified applications with arrest or conviction records will be considered for employment in accordance with the Los Angeles County Fair Chance Ordinance for Employers and the California Fair Chance Act.

Applicants in San Francisco: Qualified applications with arrest or conviction records will be considered for employment in accordance with the San Francisco Fair Chance Ordinance for Employers and the California Fair Chance Act.

In accordance with Washington state law, we are highlighting our comprehensive benefits package, which is available to all eligible US based Interns. Benefits for this role include:

Health, dental, vision insurance
Sick Time: Includes 5 discretionary sick days per instance to prioritize your well-being, in addition to all applicable local and state statutory sick leave.
Interns receive paid time off for any official company holidays that fall within their internship term.
Note: By applying to this position you will have an opportunity to share your preferred working location from the following: Mountain View, CA, USA; Ann Arbor, MI, USA; Atlanta, GA, USA; Austin, TX, USA; Boulder, CO, USA; Bellevue, WA, USA; Cambridge, MA, USA; Chicago, IL, USA; Irvine, CA, USA; Kirkland, WA, USA; Los Angeles, CA, USA; Madison, WI, USA; New York, NY, USA; Palo Alto, CA, USA; Portland, OR, USA; Pittsburgh, PA, USA; Raleigh, NC, USA; Durham, NC, USA; Reston, VA, USA; Redmond, WA, USA; Redwood City, CA, USA; San Diego, CA, USA; Goleta, CA, USA; San Bruno, CA, USA; Seattle, WA, USA; San Francisco, CA, USA; Santa Cruz, CA, USA; Sunnyvale, CA, USA; Washington D.C., DC, USA.

Minimum qualifications:
Currently pursuing a Bachelor's or Master's degree in Computer Science, Software Engineering, Information Systems, or a related technical field.

Preferred qualifications:
Currently attending a degree program in the US and available to work full time for 12 weeks outside of university term time.
In their penultimate academic year or returning to a degree program after completion of the internship.
Experience coding with one or more programming languages (e.g., Java, C/C++, Python).
Experience or coursework involving web technologies (e.g., RESTful APIs, JSON, SDKs, Webhooks) and technical troubleshooting or developer-facing support.
Experience implementing data pipelines and dashboards.
Comfortable evaluating a new problem space, identifying stakeholders, and proposing technical solutions.
About the job
As a Customer and Partner Solutions Engineer, you’ll help Google scale partner integrations, technical solutions, and developer enablement initiatives worldwide with the help of AI and automation. You’ll collaborate with product/engineering, external partners, developers, and internal engineering teams to design, implement, and troubleshoot technical integrations (APIs, SDKs, and platform protocols). Additionally, you’ll build technical innovations and tooling to streamline partner onboarding and resolve technical integration blockers.

Google is and always will be an engineering company. We hire people with a broad set of technical skills who are ready to address some of technology's greatest challenges and make an impact on millions, if not billions, of users. At Google, engineers not only revolutionize search, they routinely work on massive scalability and storage solutions, large-scale applications and entirely new platforms for developers around the world. From Google Ads to Chrome, Android to YouTube, Social to Local, Google engineers are changing the world one technological achievement after another.

Individual pay is determined by factors including job-related skills, experience, and relevant education or training.

US: $82000 - $109000 (USD) + 0% bonus target

Learn more about benefits at Google.

Responsibilities
Collect requirements, provide guidance, and best practices to apply to products and technologies.
Be responsible for proactively scoping, designing, and building a series of solutions and best practices at a global level to be reused by customers, sellers, partners.
Own the Ask Google Help support configuration and agentic workflow integrations for a dedicated set of products.
Partner closely with product operations and support teams to develop and execute product-specific, multi-channel human and AI support strategies.
Drive ongoing efficiency, scalability, and quality improvements across all support systems and operational tooling.
Information collected and processed as part of your Google Careers profile, and any job applications you choose to submit is subject to Google's Applicant and Candidate Privacy Policy.

Google is proud to be an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer. We are committed to building a workforce that is representative of the users we serve, creating a culture of belonging, and providing an equal employment opportunity regardless of race, creed, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, national origin, disability, age, genetic information, veteran status, marital status, pregnancy or related condition (including breastfeeding), expecting or parents-to-be, criminal histories consistent with legal requirements, or any other basis protected by law. See also Google's EEO Policy, Know your rights: workplace discrimination is illegal, Belonging at Google, and How we hire.

If you have a need that requires accommodation, please let us know by completing our Accommodations for Applicants form.

Google is a global company and, in order to facilitate efficient collaboration and communication globally, English proficiency is a requirement for all roles unless stated otherwise in the job posting.

To all recruitment agencies: Google does not accept agency resumes. Please do not forward resumes to our jobs alias, Google employees, or any other organization location. Google is not responsible for any fees related to unsolicited resumes.

Equity is granted exclusively and discretionarily by Alphabet Inc. on the basis of an agreement concluded between you and Alphabet Inc. Alphabet Inc. is your sole contractual partner with respect to equity grants. GSU grants are not guaranteed, are discretionary, are subject to approval by the Alphabet Inc. board of directors or its delegate, the terms of the relevant Alphabet Inc. stock plan, and your grant agreement. They have no impact on statutory payments. Current or past grants do not confer an acquired right.