Software Engineering Intern, BS, Summer 2027
corporate_fare
Google
place
Mountain View, CA, USA
; Austin, TX, USA
; +29 more
bar_chart
Intern & Apprentice
info_outline
X
Applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis and it’s in the candidate’s best interest to apply early. The anticipated application window is open until September 25th, 2026, but may close earlier if all available projects are full. 

Timing on when you can hear back will vary and can take upwards of 90+ days. If you haven’t heard from us in three months about an application, we likely proceeded with other candidates for that particular role. However, our recruiters might reach out if we find a different potential match for your skills, interests, and experience.

Participation in the internship program requires that you are located in the United States for the duration of the internship program. Please note: applications to this posting are exclusively for internship opportunities in the United States. If interested in internship opportunities in other locations outside of the United States, please complete an application for those opportunities at careers.google.com

This internship is intended for students in all academic years who are pursuing a Bachelor's degree program in Computer Science or a related field.

Google is a global company and, in order to facilitate efficient collaboration and communication globally, English proficiency is a requirement for this internship program.

To start the application process, you will need an updated CV or resume and a current unofficial or official transcript in English. Click on the “Apply” button on this page and provide the required materials in the appropriate sections (PDFs preferred).

1. In the “Resume Section:” attach an updated CV or resume.

2. In the “Education Section:” attach a current or recent unofficial or official transcript in English. 

Under “Degree Status,” select “Now attending” to upload a transcript.

San Francisco/Los Angeles applicants: Qualified applications with arrest or conviction records will be considered for employment in accordance with the San Francisco/Los Angeles County Fair Chance Ordinance for Employers and the California Fair Chance Act.
In accordance with Washington state law, we are highlighting our comprehensive benefits package, which is available to all eligible US based Interns. Benefits for this role include:

Health, dental, vision insurance
Sick Time: Includes 5 discretionary sick days per instance to prioritize your well-being, in addition to all applicable local and state statutory sick leave.
Interns receive paid time off for any official company holidays that fall within their internship term.
Note: By applying to this position you will have an opportunity to share your preferred working location from the following: Mountain View, CA, USA; Austin, TX, USA; Cambridge, MA, USA; Chicago, IL, USA; Houston, TX, USA; Irvine, CA, USA; Kirkland, WA, USA; Portland, OR, USA; Pittsburgh, PA, USA; Raleigh, NC, USA; San Diego, CA, USA; Seattle, WA, USA; South San Francisco, CA, USA; Sunnyvale, CA, USA; Atlanta, GA, USA; Boulder, CO, USA; Bellevue, WA, USA; Los Angeles, CA, USA; Madison, WI, USA; New York, NY, USA; Palo Alto, CA, USA; Reston, VA, USA; Redmond, WA, USA; Redwood City, CA, USA; Goleta, CA, USA; San Bruno, CA, USA; Santa Barbara, CA, USA; Santa Cruz, CA, USA; San Jose, CA, USA; Durham, NC, USA; San Francisco, CA, USA.

Minimum qualifications:
Pursuing a Bachelor's degree or post secondary or training experience with a focus on subjects in software development or other technical related fields.
Experience in software development and coding in two or more general purpose programming languages (e.g., C, C++, Java, JavaScript, Python, etc.).
Experience with data structures or algorithms gathered from inside or outside of school or work.

Preferred qualifications:
Currently attending a degree program in the US and available to work full time for 12 weeks outside of university term time.
Returning to a degree program after completion of the internship.
Experience programming in three or more of the following languages: C, C++, C#, Java, JavaScript, Go, Python or similar.
Experience with AI/ML, infrastructure, web application development, Unix/Linux environments, mobile application development, distributed and parallel systems, machine learning, information retrieval, natural language processing, networking, developing large software systems, or security software development.
About the job
Join us for a unique 12-14 week paid internship that offers personal and professional development, an executive speaker series, and community-building. The Software Engineering Internship program will give you an opportunity to work on complex computer science solutions, develop scalable, distributed software systems, and also collaborate on multitudes of smaller projects that have universal appeal.

We offer a range of internships in either Software Engineering or Site-Reliability Engineering across North America, including the US and Canada. Our recruitment team will determine where you fit best based on your resume.

As a Software Engineering intern, you will work on a specific project critical to Google’s needs. Google is working to advance the state of the art in computing and build the next generation of intelligent systems for all Google products. To achieve this, we work on projects that utilize the latest computer science techniques developed by skilled software developers. Whether we're shaping the future of sustainability, optimizing algorithms, or pioneering AI systems, our teams strive to continuously progress science, advance society, and improve the lives of billions of people.

Software Engineering Intern:

As a key member of a versatile team, you will work on a specific project critical to Google’s needs. We need our engineers to be versatile, and enthusiastic in addressing new problems as we continue to push technology forward. You will design, test, deploy and maintain software solutions as you grow and evolve during your internship.

Site Reliability Intern:

Our engineers create, fix, extend and scale the code to keep it working and to harden it against all the bad actors of the internet. We drive reliability and performance on a massive scale. You will work on software development projects to keep important business-critical systems up and running, from code-level troubleshooting of traffic anomalies to maintenance of our services; from monitoring and alerts to building new automation infrastructure.

Google is and always will be an engineering company. We hire people with a broad set of technical skills who are ready to address some of technology's greatest challenges and make an impact on millions, if not billions, of users. At Google, engineers not only revolutionize search, they routinely work on massive scalability and storage solutions, large-scale applications and entirely new platforms for developers around the world. From Google Ads to Chrome, Android to YouTube, Social to Local, Google engineers are changing the world one technological achievement after another.

Individual pay is determined by factors including job-related skills, experience, and relevant education or training.

US: $98000 - $131000 (USD) + 0% bonus target

Learn more about benefits at Google.
Responsibilities
Create and support a team including working with peers, managers, and teams.
Develop scripts to automate routine tasks.
Analyze information and evaluate results to choose the best solution to effectively solve problems.
Apply knowledge gained in computer science courses to real world challenges.