Technical Program Manager Intern, BS/MS, Summer 2027
corporate_fare
Google
place
Mountain View, CA, USA
; Ann Arbor, MI, USA
; +29 more
bar_chart
Intern & Apprentice
info_outline
X
Please complete your application before October 9, 2026.

Applications will be reviewed on a rolling basis and it’s in a candidate’s best interest to apply early.

Timing on when you can hear back will vary and can take upwards of 90+ days. If you haven’t heard from us in three months about your application, we likely proceeded with other candidates for the role. 

Participation in the internship program requires that you are located in the United States for the duration of the internship program.

This internship is intended for students in their penultimate academic year or returning to a degree program after completion of the internship and who are pursuing a Bachelor's or Master's degree program in Computer Science or a related field.

Google is a global company and, in order to facilitate efficient collaboration and communication globally, English proficiency is a requirement for this internship program.


To start the application process, you will need an updated CV or resume and a current unofficial or official transcript in English. Click on the “Apply” button on this page and provide the required materials in the appropriate sections (PDFs preferred):

In the “Resume Section:” attach an updated CV or resume.
Please ensure you’ve listed your anticipated graduation date (in MM/YY) 
In the “Education Section:” attach a current or recent unofficial or official transcript in English.
Under “Degree Status,” select “Now attending” to upload a transcript.
In accordance with Washington state law, we are highlighting our comprehensive benefits package, which is available to all eligible US based Interns. Benefits for this role include:
Health, dental, vision insurance
Sick Time: 40 hours/year (increased to 69 hours/year for Seattle) including 5 discretionary sick days per instance
Holidays: 13 paid days per year
This role may also be located in our Playa Vista, CA campus.

Applicants in the County of Los Angeles: Qualified applications with arrest or conviction records will be considered for employment in accordance with the Los Angeles County Fair Chance Ordinance for Employers and the California Fair Chance Act.

Applicants in San Francisco: Qualified applications with arrest or conviction records will be considered for employment in accordance with the San Francisco Fair Chance Ordinance for Employers and the California Fair Chance Act.

Note: By applying to this position you will have an opportunity to share your preferred working location from the following: Mountain View, CA, USA; Ann Arbor, MI, USA; Atlanta, GA, USA; Austin, TX, USA; Boulder, CO, USA; Bellevue, WA, USA; Cambridge, MA, USA; Chicago, IL, USA; Irvine, CA, USA; Kirkland, WA, USA; Los Angeles, CA, USA; Madison, WI, USA; New York, NY, USA; Palo Alto, CA, USA; Portland, OR, USA; Pittsburgh, PA, USA; Raleigh, NC, USA; Durham, NC, USA; Reston, VA, USA; Redmond, WA, USA; Redwood City, CA, USA; San Diego, CA, USA; Goleta, CA, USA; San Bruno, CA, USA; Seattle, WA, USA; San Francisco, CA, USA; San Jose, CA, USA; Santa Cruz, CA, USA; South San Francisco, CA, USA; Sunnyvale, CA, USA; Washington D.C., DC, USA.

Minimum qualifications:
Currently pursuing a Bachelor’s or Master's degree in Computer Science, or a related field.
Experience with one or more general purpose programming languages including: Java, C/C++, Go, or Python.
Experience leading entrepreneurial efforts, outreach within organizations or project management experience through class projects, clubs, or internships.

Preferred qualifications:
Currently attending a degree program in the US and available to work full time for 12 weeks outside of university term time.
In their penultimate academic year or returning to a degree program after completion of the internship.
Experience writing code and contributing to open source projects.
Ability to take an analytical and solution-oriented approach.
Excellent written and verbal communication, problem-solving, and collaboration skills.
About the job
Google's projects, like our users, span the globe and require managers to keep the big picture in focus while being able to dive into the unique engineering challenges we face daily. As a Technical Program Manager at Google, you lead complex, multi-disciplinary engineering projects using your engineering expertise. You plan requirements with internal customers and usher projects through the entire project lifecycle. This includes managing project schedules, identifying risks and clearly communicating them to project stakeholders. You're equally at home explaining your team's analyses and recommendations to executives as you are discussing the technical trade-offs in product development with engineers.

Using your technical and leadership expertise, you run Engineering-focused projects that are well-defined under supervision.
Google is and always will be an engineering company. We hire people with a broad set of technical skills who are ready to address some of technology's greatest challenges and make an impact on millions, if not billions, of users. At Google, engineers not only revolutionize search, they routinely work on massive scalability and storage solutions, large-scale applications and entirely new platforms for developers around the world. From Google Ads to Chrome, Android to YouTube, Social to Local, Google engineers are changing the world one technological achievement after another.

Individual pay is determined by factors including job-related skills, experience, and relevant education or training.

US: $94000 - $125000 (USD) + 0% bonus target

Learn more about benefits at Google.

Responsibilities
Work with Google Engineering teams to design, develop, implement, launch, and support services, and enhancements to existing services.
Develop and execute plans under a set of implementation and delivery time constraints, optimizing for a blend of cost, schedule, and features.
Collect and analyze relevant data and take actions accordingly.
Facilitate broad collaboration with clear communications and documentation.