Technical Program Manager I, Geographic Information Systems, Cloud Networking

Recruitment began on May 23, 2026
and the job listingExpires on May 23, 2027
Full-time
Apply Now
The application window will be open until at least June 05, 2026. This opportunity will remain online based on business needs which may be before or after the specified date.
Note: By applying to this position you will have an opportunity to share your preferred working location from the following: Addison, TX, USA; Atlanta, GA, USA; Austin, TX, USA; Sunnyvale, CA, USA; Thornton, CO, USA.

Minimum qualifications:
Bachelor’s degree in a technical field, or equivalent practical experience.
1 year of experience in program management.
Experience with ArcGIS Notebook Server, spatial automation, and geoprocessing.
Experience with Python and SQL to automate processes and analyze datasets.
Preferred qualifications:
Ability to be an influential member of a highly integrated team composed of both technical and non-technical members.
About the job
A problem isn’t truly solved until it’s solved for all. That’s why Googlers build products that help create opportunities for everyone, whether down the street or across the globe. As a Technical Program Manager at Google, you’ll use your technical expertise to lead complex, multi-disciplinary projects from start to finish. You’ll work with stakeholders to plan requirements, identify risks, manage project schedules, and communicate clearly with cross-functional partners across the company. You’re equally comfortable explaining your team’s analyses and recommendations to executives as you are discussing the technical tradeoffs in product development with engineers.

Behind everything our users see online is the architecture built by the Technical Infrastructure team to keep it running. From developing and maintaining our data centers to building the next generation of Google platforms, we make Google’s product portfolio possible. We’re proud to be our engineers’ engineers and love voiding warranties by taking things apart so we can rebuild them. We keep our networks up and running, ensuring our users have the best and fastest experience possible.

The US base salary range for this full-time position is $117,000-$166,000 + bonus + equity + benefits. Our salary ranges are determined by role, level, and location. Within the range, individual pay is determined by work location and additional factors, including job-related skills, experience, and relevant education or training. Your recruiter can share more about the specific salary range for your preferred location during the hiring process.

Please note that the compensation details listed in US role postings reflect the base salary only, and do not include bonus, equity, or benefits. Learn more about benefits at Google.

Responsibilities
Coordinate and deliver program communications in close collaboration with program stakeholders, including metrics progress, meeting notes, meeting AIs, decision/escalation logs, newsletters, and websites.
Collect data relating to program progress from program stakeholders. Maintain project trackers and status reports in close collaboration with program stakeholders.
Author program charter that addresses scope and timeline of basic programs, specifies program Objectives and Key Results (OKRs), and explains resource requirements/dependencies, in close collaboration with program stakeholders.
Author stakeholder map that specifies who is impacted by, and who influences, program outcome in close collaboration with program stakeholders.
Triage technical bugs and feature requests alongside engineering stakeholders for purposes of prioritization, resourcing, and tracking execution.