Business Analyst, YouTube
corporate_fare
YouTube
place
New York, NY, USA
; San Bruno, CA, USA
info_outline
X
Note: By applying to this position you will have an opportunity to share your preferred working location from the following: New York, NY, USA; San Bruno, CA, USA.

Minimum qualifications:
Bachelor's degree in a quantitative or scientific discipline, such as Business Analytics, Statistics, Data Science, Finance, Economics, or equivalent practical experience.
2 years of experience in a management consulting, sales operations, business strategy or corporate advisory role.
2 years of industry experience in data analysis, modeling, and SQL.

Preferred qualifications:
Experience in advertising, consultative sales, business development, or a digital media environment.
Experience in experimental design (A/B testing) to measure the efficacy of regional programs and incentive structures.
Experience in separately managing complex projects.
Excellent written and verbal communication and people management skills, with the ability to take initiative and build strong, productive relationships.
Proven track record of designing, deploying, and scaling automated self-service tools that empower stakeholders to perform independent analysis.
About the job
YouTube Biz Segment GTM is responsible for designing and delivering our service models for our Business Development, Creator and Consumer Success, and Partner Engineering teams to drive sustainable partner growth and customer lifetime value. The team will work closely with Business, Product and Marketing leaders to optimize impact and cost-to-serve across these partner and consumer segments. The core capabilities of the team include innovating and gaining alignment on our partner and consumer service models — who we serve, what service is provided to achieve growth, how the service is provided and incentivized — defining measures of success (impact, productivity, ROI), enabling change management with frontline teams and developing pilots to test new frontline models.

The YouTube Business Central Strategy and Operations Team is responsible for leading global, cross-functional, strategic initiatives to drive the unprecedented growth and health of the YouTube creator and partner ecosystem. The core capabilities of the team include strategic planning and business operations, incentives design and operations, and business strategy and operations for the three regions: Americas, EMEA, and APAC.

In this role, you will deliver analytics work within the Americas Strategy and Operations team. You will work closely with the Business Operations, Segment Go-to-Market and Product Activation functions to solve business, financial, and strategic problems. You will also partner closely with the AMER Partnerships leadership team.

Individual pay is determined by factors including job-related skills, experience, and relevant education or training.

US: $100000 - $142000 (USD) + 15% bonus target + equity + benefits

Learn more about benefits at Google.
Responsibilities
Deconstruct complex, ambiguous business problems into structured quantitative frameworks, synthesizing disparate data sources to communicate high-impact findings. Lead investigative projects, like the YouTube Market Risk Report or Business Reviews.
Establish an unbiased, data-driven factbase to provide deep insights through exploratory analysis, empowering the regional Strategy and Operations teams to form unified perspectives on critical business challenges.
Advocate the adoption of innovative investigative methodologies and tools to unlock actionable insights, driving continuous improvement in how YouTube leverages data to support creator and partner ecosystem health.
Design and maintain executive-level data visualizations and automated dashboards that translate granular data into clear, strategic narratives for the AMER leadership team.
Identify and quantify emerging business growth opportunities within the creator ecosystem by analyzing market trends and partner performance metrics to inform long-term regional strategy.