Sr Analyst Customer Supply Chain Drug
Posted Date:  Aug 10, 2026
Requisition Number:  128939
Job Overview
Manage key supply chain activities with a focus on delivering measurable results and interaction with key supply chain decision makers for assigned customers. 
Align supply chain tactical and strategic imperatives. 
Define short- and long-term supply chain vision and implement strategies to both achieve that vision and constantly refine it based on changing customer requirements, business conditions, new technology, etc.
Lead supply chain resource in working with multi-function internal and external teams to provide timely replenishment and planning actions and insights for all promotions, seasons, and planogram changes. 
Specific activities include the communication of promotion items and quantities with proper lead time, creating and execution of seasonal push-pull strategies for everyday items, and forecasting and management of new and deleted items. 
Positively impact retail in-stock levels and sales by implementing forecast changes derived from analysis of item selling patterns and having gained agreement from the customer. 
Facilitate planning and execution with the customer, Hershey sales, and the Hershey planning team
Develop systematic processes and exception-based tools to deliver reliable logistics and execution results as measured by fill rates, on time delivery, inventory levels, service levels to retail partners, and waste for assigned customers.
Formulate and execute special warehousing, transportation, and packaging initiatives as needed based on company directives
Maximize selling opportunities. 
Where appropriate, utilize retail data and insights to drive incremental sales, including on shelf availability, promotion and seasonal execution, and new item launches. Through detailed understanding of customer forecasts and distribution network configuration and practices, assist Sales and Category Strategy and Insights to promote proper volume allocation and timing of inventory
Represent The Hershey Company on all relevant special projects and customer initiatives. 
Through customer interaction and regular benchmarking, develop and maintain a focus on customer’s strategic direction in order to educate and prepare internal constituents and actively participate in strategic programs when there is a demonstrated benefit to the total supply chain     
Accountabilities
Additional Skills/Experience Required: 

Demonstrated ability to lead projects with minimal supervision Exceptional oral and written communication skills
Ability to negotiate effectively with internal and customer partners at all levels
Strong collaboration, communication, and relationship management skills
Data analysis for customer in stocks, production/supply reporting, item level supply reporting, build customer portfolio reports/analytics, build and maintaining power BI tools for broader Customer Supply Chain team. 
Proficient understanding of fundamental business management and supply chain principles and concepts
Global systems thinking – understands complex interaction of processes, information systems, and organizations
Thorough grasp of key internal and customer forecasting, order generation, and order fulfillment processes
Ability to lead multi-functional project teams
Proficient in all Microsoft Office applications
Strong working knowledge in SAP systems and tools
Ability to present complex solution in an executive summary 
Strong project management capabilities
Disposition to engage with customer at all levels of their organization (replenishment analyst to SVP)
Proficient understanding of fundamental business management and supply chain principles and concepts
Demonstrated ability to lead projects with minimal supervision
Prior Experience
Qualifications:  Bachelor’s degree required; At least 3 years progressive experience in Supply Chain or related function    

 

The Hershey Company is an Equal Opportunity Employer. The policy of The Hershey Company is to extend opportunities to qualified applicants and employees on an equal basis regardless of an individual's race, color, gender, age, national origin, religion, citizenship status, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, transgender status, physical or mental disability, protected veteran status, genetic information, pregnancy, or any other categories protected by applicable federal, state or local laws.
 
The Hershey Company is an Equal Opportunity Employer - Minority/Female/Disabled/Protected Veterans.  

You may request a reasonable accommodation if you are unable or limited in your ability to use or access our online application process as a result of a disability.
You can request an accommodation via phone or email.  

To request an accommodation via phone, please call +1 877-804-1794 and leave a voicemail with your contact information.  You may also email a request for accommodation to ApplicationHelp@hersheys.com. Please be sure to include “Accommodation Needed” in the subject line. This will ensure that your email is routed to the appropriate contact who will handle your request.


Find similar jobs:
Supply Chain & Engineering