Job Title
Federal Consulting Intern 2027
Date posted
07-Sep-2026
Job ID
127643
City / Township / Village
Herndon
State / Province
Virginia
Country
United States
Work arrangement
Onsite
Area of work
Consulting
Employment type
Co-Op (Fixed Term)
Contract type
Internship
Projected Minimum Salary per year
47,160.00
Projected Maximum Salary per year
86,460.00
Position type
Internship
Travel required
Up to 100% or 5 days a week (home on weekends - based on project requirements)
Company
(0147) International Business Machines Corporation
Shift
General (daytime)
Is this role a commissionable/sales incentive based position?
No

Federal Consulting Intern 2027
Herndon, Virginia, United States
Internship
Email
X
LinkedIn
Apply now
Introduction


Launch your career like an IBMer

Every IBMer has a story. For many, it started with an internship.

As an IBM intern, you won't just gain experience - you'll start thinking, working, and growing like an IBMer. From day one, you'll contribute to real client projects across diverse industries, working alongside experienced IBMers who are invested in your success. You'll be challenged, supported, and inspired, often all in the same day. You'll develop technical expertise and consulting skills in a culture built on continuous learning, mentorship, and coaching. High-performing interns have a clear pathway into IBM's Associate Program, launching careers at one of the world's most innovative technology and consulting companies.

 

About the Team

In this role, you will join IBM's US Federal team to deliver secure, mission-critical technology solutions for government agencies. You'll work with federal, state, and local clients while developing specialized expertise in government compliance and security standards. This role offers unique career growth in a high-demand sector where your contributions directly impact public services and government missions.

Your role and responsibilities
During your internship, you can enhance your knowledge and gain professional experience by working on client projects. This role provides an exceptional opportunity to build a compelling portfolio, acquire new skills, gain insights into diverse industries, and embrace novel challenges for your future career.

 

At IBM, we prioritize continuous learning, skill development, and personal growth within a culture of coaching and mentorship. As an intern, you'll experience this culture and have the opportunity to advance to our associate program based on results and performance

 

Work experiences you could be exposed to:

Market Dynamics: Immersing yourself in primary research and collaborate with dynamic teams assisting clients in navigating market trends and refining competitive strategies.
Operational Excellence: Support operational improvement by designing models for a seamless client experience, contributing to heightened efficiency and effectiveness in operational processes.
Stakeholder Engagement: Support workshops, meetings, and interviews to understand and document requirements collaborating with diverse teams to capture and synthesizing essential information. 
Project Exposure: Gain hands on experience shadowing product teams and enterprise-wide data integrations. Contribute to data analytics assessments and actively participate in cloud migration and system implementations across major platforms.
 

 

The primary internship program dates are May 24, 2027 - July 30, 2027 (10 weeks).

 

Candidates must have the ability to obtain and maintain a Federal security clearance while in IBM Consulting-Federal.



To give yourself the best opportunity for success, we advise applying only to roles that align with your skills and experience, rather than applying broadly across all entry-level positions. You’ll receive a status update email for each application, so be sure to check your IBM Careers account regularly — it’s the best way to get a centralized view of which roles you have active applications against.

 

The below requirements are a guideline. If you have transferable skills we encourage you to apply to this role.



Required education
High School Diploma/GED
Required technical and professional expertise
Strong interpersonal skills that enhance collaboration and relationship building, while also managing dynamic workloads in an agile environment

Have initiative and passion to actively seek new knowledge and improve skills while embracing a growth mindset to assimilate diverse viewpoints

Demonstrate leadership experience and ability to communicate effectively through active listening; while also be willing to adapt and have a readiness to take ownership of tasks and challenges.

Interest in one or more of the following types of consulting: package, security, strategy, application, business transformation, or experience.

Preferred technical and professional experience
Can understand clients' needs and challenges, applying a creative and logical approach to identify solutions.

Demonstrate foundational quantitative analysis skills and ability to develop data driven recommendations.

Exposure to one of the following programming technologies (e.g., JavaScript, HTML, XML, SQL) is a plus.

ABOUT BUSINESS UNIT
IBM Consulting is IBM’s consulting and global professional services business, with market leading capabilities in business and technology transformation. With deep expertise in many industries, we offer strategy, experience, technology, and operations services to many of the most innovative and valuable companies in the world. Our people are focused on accelerating our clients’ businesses through the power of collaboration. We believe in the power of technology responsibly used to help people, partners and the planet.