Job Title: Seasonal GIS AnalystWorksite Location: Onsite at the Sentera location in St. Paul, MNWork Hours: Typical work hours are 8 am to 4:30 pm Monday through Friday. Weekend work is highly likely and required.
SUMMARYWe are seeking a Seasonal GIS Analyst with knowledge, experience, and interest in the fields of geospatial data processing and analysis to apply these skills towards analyzing images of farm fields and orchards captured by drones.
ESSENTIAL DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES include the following. Other duties may be assigned.• Process sets of images captured by drones to produce georeference mosaics (raster data) using stitching software.• Perform a wide variety of raster and vector based analytic tasks related to georeferenced imagery of farm fields and orchards.• Use internal tools, workflows, and models to process imagery of agricultural fields.• Generate maps and reports.• Generate polygon vector layers based on customer description of farm field experiment locations and zonal analysis of raster data.• Perform zonal analysis of raster data using a combination of automated tools and manual workflows.• Use internal tools and workflows to automatically detect and analyze weeds in agricultural fields.• Inspect results and make edits to shapefiles using quality assurance workflows.• Prepare processing results for customer delivery.• Communicate project status clearly and effectively to lead analyst.
QUALIFICATIONSTo perform this job successfully, an individual must be able to perform each essential duty satisfactorily. The requirements listed below are representative of the knowledge, skill, and/or ability required. Reasonable accommodation may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.
EDUCATION and/or EXPERIENCE• Bachelor’s degree in geography, environmental science, GIS, or a related field, or a GIS Certificate.• Proficiency in Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Software such as ArcGIS or QGIS• Experience working with raster and vector data• Remote sensing knowledge – preferred
Skills/Abilities:• Strong work ethic• Flexible working schedule• Detail oriented• Ability to work independently and on a team• Strong communication skills both verbal and written• Ability to work within in a team or independently, with a can-do attitude, and willing to work until the job gets done.
PHYSICAL DEMANDSThe physical demands described here are representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.• While performing the duties of this job the employee is regularly required to talk or hear. The employee is frequently required to sit at a desk for long periods of time. The vision requirements include close vision.
WORK ENVIRONMENT/ADDITIONAL INFORMATION• General office environment – computer and telephone work.• Visa sponsorship is not available, now or in the near future,• Interviews will be conducted via MS Teams including video.
Please note that this position is seasonal and work only about 4 months. Manager is open to candidates who are still in school.