Research Professional - Development Innovation Lab
Location: United States of America
Start Date (Earliest): 7 June 2027
Job Summary:

The Development Innovation Lab at the University of Chicago uses the tools of economics to develop innovations with the potential to benefit millions of people in low- and middle-income countries. It was founded and is led by Nobel laureate Michael Kremer. DIL, in partnership with BFI, is seeking to hire multiple full-time Research Professionals to work with Professor Michael Kremer, Nobel Laureate, and possibly other faculty as part of the Development Innovation Lab.

Successful applicants will collaborate on new and ongoing research in development economics. The Research Professional’s responsibilities will span all stages of research, including collecting data in both tabular and spatial formats, developing algorithms that clean and organize data, conducting statistical analyses, running simulations, and preparing manuscripts and presentations. 

Responsibilities:

Under limited direction, performs complex lab and/or research-related duties and tasks. (15%) 
Supports data collection. Develops data collection instruments, trains and oversees the work of research support personnel, and monitors data quality. (15%) 
Supports analytical needs of research projects. Collects, records, and analyzes data. Builds, manages, and maintains project databases. (15%) 
Conducts literature reviews and helps write reports, manuscripts, and other documents. (10%) 
Supports the design and implementation of experiments, interacting with research subjects and other laboratory staff under the direction of the principal investigator. (15%) 
Ensures project compliance with different policies, procedures, directives, and mandates. (10%) 
Presents research findings at staff meetings, seminars, and scientific conferences. (5%) 
Maintains technical and administrative support for a research project. (10%) 
Performs other related work as needed. (5%) 
Minimum Qualifications:

Education: Bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution.
Experience: Minimum requirements include knowledge and skills developed through less than 2 years of work experience in a related job discipline.
Preferred Qualifications:

Strong undergraduate training in economics and mathematics from a top institution and relevant research experience. Experience gained in school counts towards this qualification. 
Experience working, studying, or spending significant time in developing countries. 
Technical Skills or Knowledge: 

Knowledge of mathematics and statistics as indicated by coursework and GRE scores (if taken). We have a strong preference for candidates with quantitative GRE scores above 167. 
Knowledge of research techniques and methods used in impact evaluations, particularly, randomized controlled trials. 
Preferred competencies:

Advanced coursework in Economics or Mathematics. 
Strong written and verbal communication skills. 
Manage multiple projects simultaneously and meet tight deadlines. 
Work both independently and as a team member. 
Excellent organizational skills and attention to detail. 
Preferred Licenses and Certifications:

None 
Working Conditions:

Perform tasks mostly indoors in an office setting. 
Work independently for periods of eight (8) hours or more. 
Spend extended periods traveling for field work. 
Willing to travel extensively and flexibly as needed for their respective responsibilities.   
How to Apply
﻿If you are interested, please apply here.

Application Documents:

Resume/CV (required) 
Cover Letter (required) 
References Contact Information (3)(required) 
Writing sample (required)
﻿Application Timeline:

Applications are reviewed in two rounds. Round 1 will review applications submitted by Sunday, September 20, 2026. Round 2 will review applications submitted between Monday, September 21 and Sunday, December 13, 2026. 

Note: Round 2 is for new applicants only. Candidates should not reapply if they already submitted an application in Round 1. 

https://job-boards.greenhouse.io/bfiprep/jobs/7980693003