Supply Chain Program Management Intern
United States, Washington, Redmond

Job number
200047414
Date posted
Aug 10, 2026
Work site
3 days / week in-office
Travel
Less than 25%
Profession
Supply Chain
Discipline
Supply Chain Program Management
Role type
Individual Contributor
Employment type
Internship
Overview
Come build community, explore your passions and do your best work at Microsoft with thousands of University interns from every corner of the world. This opportunity will allow you to bring your aspirations, talent, potential and excitement for the journey ahead. ​ 

As a Supply Chain Program Management Intern, you will build support plans and design service experiences for new products, programs, or offerings. You will critically review new support scenarios to identify potential incidents/risks and their mitigation; determining if new plans are necessary to support offerings and opportunities or if plans should be removed. You will analyze experience feedback and monitor key performance indicators to improve the customer experience, increase return on investment, and identify new opportunities.​ 

At Microsoft, Interns work on real-world projects in collaboration with teams across the world, while having fun along the way. You’ll be empowered to build community, explore your passions and achieve your goals. This is your chance to bring your solutions and ideas to life while working on cutting-edge technology. ​ 

Microsoft’s mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. As employees we come together with a growth mindset, innovate to empower others, and collaborate to realize our shared goals. Each day we build on our values of respect, integrity, and accountability to create a culture of inclusion where everyone can thrive at work and beyond. ​ 



Responsibilities
Executes forward or reverse supply plans provided. Performs tactical elements of supply plan, including understanding the part level gaps between demand and supply. Manages programs with low complexity and/or receives direct guidance. ​ 

Uses tools and processes for managing supply and driving improvements to avoid additional labor needs, while gaining a foundational understanding of these tools and processes. ​ 

Conducts analysis and gathers information for "what-if" scenarios impacting supply and demand management for forward and reverse planning. ​ 

Reworks/refurbishes finished goods, executing mitigation solutions for goods, and redeploys them in another area, when applicable. ​ 

Assists with the review of staffing, capacity, bills of materials, and change orders. Tracks metrics related to operational performance of suppliers. ​ 



Qualifications
Required Qualifications:

Currently pursuing Bachelor's Degree in Engineering, Industrial Engineering, Supply Chain/Operations Management, Supply Chain Analytics, or related field. ​ 

Must have at least one additional semester/term of school remaining following the completion of the internship.   ​

#EiP 



The base pay range for this internship is USD $4,700.00 - $8,350.00 per month. There is a different range applicable to specific work locations, within the San Francisco Bay area and New York City metropolitan area, and the base pay range for this role in those locations is USD $6,330.00 - $9,490.00 per month.

Certain roles may be eligible for benefits and other compensation. Find additional benefits and pay information here:
https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/us-intern-pay

Microsoft accepts applications and processes offers for these roles on an ongoing basis throughout the academic calendar
(September - April)


This position will be open for a minimum of 5 days, with applications accepted on an ongoing basis until the position is filled.