Student Trainee (Engineering)
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Headquarters

Summary
This position is in NASA's Pathways Intern Employment Program (IEP) which provides students with opportunities to explore NASA careers and gain meaningful developmental work experience.

To learn more about NASA's Pathways Program, click here: NASA Pathways Internship Program

Duties
Help
This vacancy is open to students pursuing one of the majors listed in the Education section of this announcement.
Work under the guidance of senior engineers/scientists to support NASA mission operations in groundbreaking design, development, test and evaluation, and/or research work of aerospace technologies that align to your academic studies and interests.
Specific duties will be dependent upon the assigned occupational specialty in preparation for more difficult tasks as a professional trainee after graduation.
Conduct analyses of data to support conclusions or recommendations for courses of action.

Requirements
Help
Conditions of employment
This position is open to U.S. citizens, nationals or those who owe allegiance to the U.S.
At the time you apply for this announcement, you must be a degree or certificate seeking student who is enrolled or accepted for enrollment in an accredited educational institution on at least a half time basis as defined by the institution.
At the time you apply for this announcement, you must have a cumulative GPA of at least 2.9 on a 4.0 scale (or equivalent).
The expected start date is January 25, 2027.
You must be able to work a minimum of 480 hours after your start date and before you complete your academic program requirements.
Applicants must have a graduation date on or after April 17, 2027.
If you are selected, you must maintain your enrollment at your current educational institution during periods you are not working at NASA. You must also maintain a GPA of at least 2.9 on a 4.0 scale (or equivalent).
If you are selected, you will be required to sign a Pathways Participant Agreement which outlines the conditions of employment.
If you are selected, you will be subject to a pre-employment background investigation or higher level clearance. The level of investigation/clearance may differ and be required based on the duties/location-NASA Center requirements.
Financial Disclosure, Drug Testing, and/or the Risk Designation for this position may differ and be required based on the duty location/NASA Center requirements.
Salary Range reflects the lowest and highest salary for the advertised duty locations. Actual salary will be dependent on the NASA duty location for which you are selected.
Rotational assignments are at management's discretion.
After submitting your application via USAJOBS, you may be notified via email to take additional USA Hire assessments online. Please refer to the "How to Apply" section for important information.
If you are selected, you must be at least 16 years old at the time of your start date.
This position may require a two-year trial period. If selected, the requirement to serve such period will be determined by Title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 11. **See Additional Information section**
Qualifications
Starting GS grade levels are determined by education level COMPLETED at this time:

For GS-4: Completed at least 30 semester credit hours or at least 45 quarter hours in a certificate program, associate's or bachelor's degree program.
For GS-5: Completed at least 60 semester credit hours or at least 90 quarter hours in a certificate program or bachelor's degree program.
For GS-6: Completed 90 or more semester credit hours or 135 or more quarter hours in a certificate program or bachelor's degree program.
For GS-7: Accepted into a master's or juris doctor program OR in the first year of a master's or juris doctor program.
For GS-9: Completed 1 academic year* of a master's or juris doctor program OR accepted into a doctorate program OR in the first year of a doctorate program.
*An academic year of graduate education is considered to be the number of credit hours that the school attended has determined to represent 1 academic year of full-time study.

Your responses to the initial application questionnaire will determine the grade for which you will be considered. You will only be considered for the grade level matching your claimed academic level.

Documentation must be provided which adequately supports your answers to the eligibility questions. If enrolled in a dual degree program, your supporting documents must show how your credit hours apply to each degree and, if applicable, which degree(s) you have completed.

Please visit https://www.nasa.gov/careers/how-to-apply/#Artificial-Intelligence to review NASA's guidance on the use of artificial intelligent (AI) or AI-assisted tools during the application process.
Education
To be eligible for this position, you must be enrolled and pursuing a degree with a major in one of the following required fields:

Aerospace Engineering
Aeronautical Engineering
Astronautical Engineering
Biomedical Engineering
Ceramic Engineering
Chemical Engineering
Chemistry
Civil Engineering
Computational Science and Engineering
Computer Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical Engineering
Electronics Engineering
Engineering Mechanics
Fire Protection Engineering
Industrial Engineering
Materials Engineering
Materials Science
Mathematics
Mechanical Engineering
Mechatronics
Metallurgical Engineering
Molecular Engineering
Optical Engineering
Optical Sciences
Optomechanical Engineering
Photonics Science & Engineering
Polymer Engineering
Quantum Information Science & Engineering
Robotics Engineering
Software Engineering
Space Systems
Structural Engineering
Systems Engineering
Welding Engineering
Degrees in engineering technology are not qualifying for this position.

Engineering programs from institutions within the United States: You must be enrolled in a degree program at a college or university school of engineering with at least one curriculum accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) as a professional engineering curriculum. Degrees must be received in the year of, or any year subsequent to the original date of accreditation. To find out if a degree meets this requirement, go to the ABET website.

Engineering programs from institutions outside the United States: Engineering programs from educational institutions outside the United States must be recognized by an ABET Mutual Recognition Agreement (MRA), often known as accords. These are non-governmental agreements among organizations that accredit academic degree programs. MRAs recognize the substantial equivalence of mature accreditation systems and programs accredited by signatory organizations within their jurisdictions. For a listing of Signatories, please visit, https://www.abet.org/global-presence/mutual-recognition-agreements/is-your-program-recognized/.

Science programs from institutions within the United States: Science and other related degree programs within the United States must be from colleges or universities that are accredited by recognized accrediting organizations. For a list of schools that meet this criteria, go to http://ope.ed.gov/accreditation/.

Science and other related degree programs from institutions outside the United States: If you are currently enrolled in a degree program at a foreign college or university, your degree may need to be evaluated by a private organization that specializes in interpretation of foreign education programs, in order for you to be eligible for conversion to a permanent or term position. Your degree must be deemed equivalent to that gained in an accredited U.S. education program; or full credit must be given for the courses at a U.S. accredited college or university. For further information, visit: https://sites.ed.gov/international/recognition-of-foreign-qualifications/.

How you will be evaluated
You will be evaluated for this job based on how well you meet the qualifications above.

You will be evaluated for this position based on how well you meet the qualifications and eligibility requirements listed in this vacancy announcement. To determine your qualifications and referral status, we may review your resume and supporting documentation and compare it against your responses to the assessment questionnaire. Overstating your qualifications and/or experience in your application materials or assessment questionnaire may result in your removal from consideration.

These competencies will be assessed using a multiple hurdle process with several talent assessments, including the Early Career Talent Assessment (ECTA), panel reviews, and structured interviews:

Attention to Detail
Flexibility
Interpersonal Skills
Learning
Problem Solving
Self-Management (Achievement)
Technology Application
In order to be considered for this position, you must complete all required steps in the process. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires an online assessment. The online assessment measures critical general competencies required to perform the job.

Under NASA's category rating process, applicants will be assessed on the position competencies and placed in one of three categories identified and defined below:
Best Qualified Category - Applicants who demonstrate a superior level of all evaluation criteria.
Highly Qualified Category - Applicants who demonstrate a satisfactory level of the evaluation criteria.
Qualified Category - Applicants who demonstrate the basic qualifications, with general knowledge, skills, and abilities.
Names of all qualified candidates in the Best Qualified category will be sent to the hiring official for employment consideration (unless a sufficient number of qualified veterans are found - in which case only those names will be initially certified). Candidates within the Best Qualified category who are eligible for veteran preference will receive selection priority over non-veteran preference eligibles.

NASA will not ask you to disclose criminal history record information during the application process or before we make a conditional/tentative offer of employment. If you apply for this position and are selected, NASA will conduct a suitability/security background investigation after you accept a tentative job offer. If you feel you are asked to disclose your criminal history before you accept a tentative offer and wish to file a complaint within 30 days, please contact: Agency-FCCJ@NASA.gov.

Required Documents
Help
All submitted resumes must not exceed two (2) pages in length. Resumes longer than two pages will be rejected by USAJOBS. Applicants are strongly encouraged to prioritize including experience and relevant qualifications that directly align with the position advertised. All work experience and accomplishments must be associated with dates (month/year) to allow for accurate qualification assessment.

To apply for this position, you must submit a complete Application Package which includes:

Your resume showing work schedule, hours worked per week, dates of employment and duties performed.
College Transcript or Acceptance Letter (please see below for more information)
Veterans' preference documentation, if applicable: If you are a veteran and you are claiming veterans' preference, you must submit a DD214, Certificate of Release from Active Duty, which shows dates of service and discharge under honorable conditions. For spouses claiming derived veterans' preference, proof of marriage is also required. For more information on veterans' preference and possible other supporting documents that you may have to submit, please visit FedshireVets.
Please note: the following types of information are strictly prohibited and will not be used in determining qualifications. Do not include any of the following in your application materials:

Classified or government sensitive information
Social Security Number (SSN)
Photos of yourself
Personal information (e.g., age, gender, religious affiliation, etc.)
Encrypted or digitally signed documents
If your resume contains any of the above information, you must redact that information prior to the submission of your application. Do not submit an OF-306 with your application.

College Transcript: Applicants must submit a copy of their most recent college transcript that lists the school's name, student's name, degree program, major, GPA, college courses, course title, and number of credit hours completed. Unofficial transcripts will be accepted, however should you be selected, official transcripts will be required prior to your appointment date. If your college transcript does not list all of this information, you must provide supplemental documentation from your educational institution that specifies the information missing from your transcript.

Accepted for Enrollment: If you have been accepted for enrollment in an institution but have not yet begun coursework, you must submit an Acceptance Letter from the institution AND your most recent academic transcript from your previous program. The Acceptance Letter must indicate enrollment into the degree and major required for eligibility.

Official documents are required at the time of appointment for verification of eligibility and qualifications.
If you are relying on your education to meet qualification requirements:
Education must be accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education in order for it to be credited towards qualifications. Therefore, provide only the attendance and/or degrees from schools accredited by accrediting institutions recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.

Failure to provide all of the required information as stated in this vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating or may affect the overall rating.

How to Apply
Help
Please read the entire announcement and all the instructions before you begin an application. To apply and be considered for this position, you must complete all required questionnaires, assessments and submit all required documentation as specified in the How to Apply and Required Documents section. The complete application package must be submitted by 11:59 PM (ET) on the closing date of the announcement to receive consideration. The application process is as follows:

To begin the application process, you will need to be logged into your USAJOBS account. If you do not have a USAJOBS account, you will need to create one before beginning the application process. Once logged in to your account, click on the "Apply" link.
Follow the prompts to select your resume (2 pages or fewer) and/or other supporting documents to be included with your application package. Resumes longer than 2 pages will be rejected by the system. Resumes submitted via other document types will not be forwarded to the hiring manager, nor will they be used in the review of your qualifications. We strongly encourage you to utilize the USAJOBS resume builder when creating your resume. Using the resume builder will help you ensure your resume includes important information related to your qualifications and eligibility for this position. Answer the questions presented in the application and attach all necessary supporting documentation. During the application process you can review, edit, delete and update your information. We'll automatically save your progress as you go, so you won't lose any changes. Your uploaded documents may take several hours to clear the virus scan process.
After acknowledging you have reviewed your application package, complete the 'Include Personal Information' section as you deem appropriate and click to continue with the application process. You will be taken to the vacancy questionnaire which you must complete in order to apply for the position. Complete the online application, verify all required documentation is included with your application package, and submit the application.
Click the Submit Application button prior to 11:59PM (ET) on the announcement closing date.
If you are required to complete any USA Hire Assessments, you will be notified after submitting your application. The notification will be provided in your application submission screen and via email. The notification will include your unique assessment access link to the USA Hire system and the completion deadline. Additionally, in USAJOBS you can click "Track this application" to return to your assessment completion notice.
Access USA Hire using your unique assessment link. Access is granted through your USAJOBS login credentials.
Review all instructions prior to beginning your assessments. You will have the opportunity to request a testing accommodation before beginning the assessments should you have a disability covered under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 as amended.
Set aside at least 3 hours to take the USA Hire Assessments; however, most applicants complete the assessments in less time. If you need to stop the assessments and continue later, you can re-use your unique assessment link.
Your responses to the USA Hire Assessments will be reused for one year (in most cases) from the date you complete an assessment. If future applications you submit require completion of the same assessments, your responses will be automatically reused.
Visit the USA Hire Applicant Resource Center for practice assessments and assessment preparation resources at https://support-usahire.opm.gov/hc/en-us.

To update your application, including supporting documentation: During the announcement open period, return to your USAJOBS account, find your application record, and click Edit my application. This option will no longer be available once the announcement has closed.

To view the announcement status or your application status: Visit https://www.usajobs.gov/Help/howto/application/status/. Your application status page is where you can view your application status, USA Hire assessment completion status, and review your notifications sent by the hiring agency regarding your application.

NASA provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities. If you are an applicant with a disability and need a reasonable accommodation for any part of the application and hiring process, please notify the agency contact center listed on the job vacancy announcement. The decision on granting reasonable accommodations will be on a case-by-case basis.

Agency contact information
NASA Shared Services Center
Phone
1-877-677-2123
Fax
1-866-779-6772
Email
nssc-staffing@mail.nasa.gov

Next steps
NASA's online application process provides step by step guidance to ensure you provide all needed information. If you are unable to apply online, please contact NSSC-CONTACTCENTER@MAIL.NASA.GOV for assistance. Be advised - application materials faxed, emailed, and/or mailed to NASA will not be accepted for this announcement.

Once you submit your application package, you will receive an acknowledgement email. Throughout the process you will receive regular status updates through USAJOBS. To verify the status of your application, log into your USAJOBS account (Account Login), all of your applications will appear on the Welcome screen. The Application Status will appear along with the date your application was last updated. For information on what each Application Status means, visit: Application Status.

If you are found qualified, you may be referred to the hiring manager for further consideration. Whether or not you are contacted for an interview depends upon the location of the position and the judgment of the hiring manager.

If you are selected, you will be notified by phone or email with a tentative job offer. If you fail to meet the conditions of employment or any other pre-employment requirements, such as missing a scheduled appointment, we may rescind a tentative job offer.

An official, written job offer will be issued once all requirements have been verified.

Overview
Help
Accepting applications
Open 09/21/2026 to 09/25/2026
Location
Few vacancies in the following locations:
 Huntsville, AL
 Edwards AFB, CA
 Moffett Field, CA
 Kennedy Space Center, FL
 Greenbelt, MD
 Stennis Space Center, MS
 Las Cruces, NM
 Cleveland, OH
 Houston, TX
 Hampton, VA
Work site options
Telework eligible
Yes—as determined by the agency policy.
Remote job
No
Relocation expenses reimbursed
No
Salary
$17.82 - $48.07 per hour
Pay scale & grade
GS 4 - 9
Promotion potential
None
Learn more about pay scale and grade
Pay scale and grade determines the salary of the job.
Work schedule
Multiple Schedules
Travel Required
Occasional travel - You may be expected to travel for this position.
Appointment type
Internships
Occupations and job series
0899 Engineering And Architecture Student Trainee
Supervisory status
No
Federal service type
This job is in the Excepted Service
Represented by a union
No
Drug test
No
Security clearance
Not Required
Position sensitivity and risk
Non-sensitive (NS)/Low Risk
Jobs require a background check and some require a security clearance. The type depends on the job.
Background check type
Suitability/Fitness
Financial disclosure required
No
Some jobs require financial disclosure to identify conflicts of interests.
Announcement number
NSSC-26-PW-13059304-TB
Control number
885167100