Data Reporter, Polling and Campaigns
30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, NEW YORK
Employees work in a hybrid mode
Full-time
Business Segment: NBC Editorial
Compensation: USD 93,000 - USD 150,000 - yearly
Company Description
NBCUniversal is one of the world's leading media and entertainment companies. We create world-class content, which we distribute across our portfolio of film, television, and streaming, and bring to life through our global theme park destinations, consumer products, and experiences. We own and operate leading entertainment and news brands, including NBC, NBC News, NBC Sports, Telemundo, NBC Local Stations, Bravo, and Peacock, our premium ad-supported streaming service. We produce and distribute premier filmed entertainment and programming through our powerhouse film and television studios, including Universal Pictures, DreamWorks Animation, and Focus Features, and the four global television studios under the Universal Studio Group banner, and operate industry-leading theme parks and experiences around the world through Universal Destinations & Experiences, including Universal Orlando Resort, home to Universal Epic Universe, and Universal Studios Hollywood. NBCUniversal is a subsidiary of Comcast Corporation. Visit www.nbcuniversal.com for more information.

Our impact is rooted in improving the communities where our employees, customers, and audiences live and work. We have a rich tradition of giving back and ensuring our employees have the opportunity to serve their communities. We champion an inclusive culture and strive to attract and develop a talented workforce to create and deliver a wide range of content reflecting our world.

Job Description
NBC News is seeking a versatile and experienced journalist to cover polling, elections and other political data, including demographic shifts.

In this role, you will work closely with the director of elections, the Decision Desk team, NBC News’ chief data analyst and the Digital Politics team. Your primary mission is to use data to surface smart, original insights into how Americans are thinking and feeling about their elected officials and the issues that affect their lives and shape their votes — and to help explain what happens on pivotal election nights across multiple digital and linear platforms, including newsletter formats.   

You might have a formal political scientist background. You might be a reporter with an aptitude for statistics. Either way, you must have a track record of authoring thoughtful, nonpartisan, fact-based analysis of public opinion surveys and vote data for a news organization. You must also be a sharp writer, with a knack for translating complex matters to a broad audience. 

Ideally, you have the ability to zoom in on significant data points while capturing larger themes and trends to tell us why what you’re seeing matters. You have experience authoring and explaining methodologies. You have strong knowledge of election procedures, statistical data sets, and geographical and demographic considerations, and some experience or familiarity with standard visualization and data tools. 

You should hate to be beat by the competition when it comes to smart angles. You should also take direction well and be able to execute on the ideas of others. Above all, you are collaborative and eager to work with NBC News colleagues across the organization as we build on our best-in-class election data operation.

This job is based in New York, and will involve being comfortable reporting across NBC News’ many platforms. Your work will help anchor our new subscription service, including but not limited to contributing to newsletters, live chats, and other audience engagement opportunities. The role will report to the director of data and election experiences. 

Responsiblities

Pitch, execute or contribute to 1-2 quick-turn pieces of original analysis per week (video, newsletter, or other formats)
Pitch, execute or contribute to tentpole enterprise projects related to elections
Coordinate and collaborate closely with multiple teams across NBC News
Qualifications
10 or more years of professional journalism experience, including experience in covering public opinion polling, election results, and other data, such as demographics
Experience in writing for newsletters and/or delivering on a newscycle-connected cadence (at least 1-2 pieces per week) and contributing to television, streaming, audio and social platforms 
Impeccable journalistic writing skills, filing accurate, clean and engaging copy on first draft
A demonstrated track record of ideating and producing original journalism on a political beat
Some familiarity or experience with tools such as Excel, R, Python, SQL
Experience with DTC platforms and social video is a plus 
Desired Characteristics 

Ability to rapidly interpret data and spot trends
Strong research skills and editorial judgment
Additional Requirements

Hybrid: This position currently has a hybrid schedule, which requires contributing from the office a minimum of four days per week. The Company reserves the right to change in-office requirements at any time. 
This position is eligible for company sponsored benefits, including medical, dental and vision insurance, 401(k), paid leave, tuition reimbursement, and a variety of other discounts and perks. Learn more about the benefits offered by NBCUniversal by visiting the Benefits page of the Careers website.

Salary range: $93,000 - $150,000 

Additional Information
As part of our selection process, external candidates may be required to attend an in-person interview with an NBCUniversal employee at one of our locations prior to a hiring decision. NBCUniversal's policy is to provide equal employment opportunities to all applicants and employees without regard to race, color, religion, creed, gender, gender identity or expression, age, national origin or ancestry, citizenship, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, pregnancy, veteran status, membership in the uniformed services, genetic information, or any other basis protected by applicable law.

If you are a qualified individual with a disability or a disabled veteran and require support throughout the application and/or recruitment process as a result of your disability, you have the right to request a reasonable accommodation. You can submit your request to AccessibilitySupport@nbcuni.com.