Data Visualization Engineer
San Francisco, CA
Welcome to Planet. We believe in using space to help life on Earth.

Planet designs, builds, and operates the largest constellation of imaging satellites in history. This constellation delivers an unprecedented dataset of empirical information via a revolutionary cloud-based platform to authoritative figures in commercial, environmental, and humanitarian sectors. We are both a space company and data company all rolled into one.

Customers and users across the globe use Planet's data to develop new technologies, drive revenue, power research, and solve our world’s toughest obstacles.

As we control every component of hardware design, manufacturing, data processing, and software engineering, our office is a truly inspiring mix of experts from a variety of domains.

We have a people-centric approach toward culture and community and we strive to iterate in a way that puts our team members first and prepares our company for growth. Join Planet and be a part of our mission to change the way people see the world.

Planet is a global company with employees working remotely world wide and joining us from offices in San Francisco, Washington DC, Germany, Austria, Slovenia, and The Netherlands.

About the Role:

In our increasingly data-driven world, it’s essential for our customers and prospects to have accessible ways to understand the value of Planet data. You will join the Data Visualization Team, sitting within the Marketing Department’s Creative Group alongside web developers and graphic designers. We are looking for a spatial thinker with a passion for remote sensing analysis and visual communication to help us leverage Planet’s platform and imagery products for external distribution. You will use our unique datasets in compelling ways, suggesting and trying new technologies and creative approaches to make our platform more accessible.

This is a full-time, hybrid role which will require you to work from our San Francisco office 3 days per week.

Impact You'll Own:

Find and tell stories that showcase novel applications of Planet’s unique products, and leveraging your ability to combine our imagery with complementary datasets.
Collaborate with Marketing colleagues to understand target audiences and create graphics for content to educate customers on how Planet data can meet their needs or solve their problems.
Assist in scoping and providing technical feedback on Marketing content, whether it’s an animation, video, datasheet or presentation deck. You’ll ensure that the data is accurately represented.
Partner with the Media Programs Manager and the rest of the DataViz team to prepare and share imagery externally with the press, think tanks and analysts as they try to meet tight deadlines.
Encourage and use best practices for data visualization as a knowledgeable resource within the organization.
What You Bring:

4+ years experience in relevant technical roles, preferably working with geospatial and/or remote sensing data
Bachelor’s degree in a relevant field
Ability to meet tight deadlines and prioritize workloads in a dynamic, client-driven work environment without sacrificing attention to detail
Experience collaborating with cross-functional teams and articulating complex technical concepts to diverse audiences
Knowledge of use cases for remote sensing data
Knowledge of cartographic and data visualization best practices
Experience in manipulating vector and raster data with core geospatial software and libraries (QGIS, ArcGIS, GDAL, Avenza Geographic Imager, Avenza MAPublisher, etc.)
Leverage the latest AI tooling and an AI-first mindset to drive rapid iteration, deliver value quickly, and adapt to evolving requirements with a bias for action
Experience programming with Python to analyze geospatial data and interact with APIs
Experience working with the Adobe Creative Suite (especially Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator)
Adept at learning new datasets, APIs, platforms, and technical concepts
Experience working with remote, distributed, global teams
What Makes You Stand Out:

Experience working in the space and/or Earth observation industry
Working knowledge of modern and widely supported front- and back-end programming languages, libraries, and frameworks (Javascript, React, D3, NextJS, Svelte, etc.)
Experience working with and visualizing hyperspectral data
Video and animation skills
Experience with web mapping and/or interactive web storytelling
Application Deadline:

October 6, 2026 by 11:59p / 23:59 CET (Central European Time)

Benefits While Working at Planet:

These offerings are dependent on employment type and geographical location, based upon applicable law or company policy.

Comprehensive Medical, Dental, and Vision plans
Health Savings Account (HSA) with a company contribution
Generous Paid Time Off in addition to holidays and company-wide days off 
16 Weeks of Paid Parental Leave
Wellness Program and Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
Home Office Reimbursement
Monthly Phone and Internet Reimbursement
Tuition Reimbursement and access to LinkedIn Learning
Equity
Commuter Benefits (if local to an office)
Volunteering Paid Time Off
Compensation:

The US base salary range for this full-time position at the commencement of employment is listed below. Additionally, this role might be eligible for discretionary short-term and long-term incentives (bonus and equity). The final salary range is determined by job related experience, skills and location. The range displays our typical hiring range for new hire salaries in US locations only. Your recruiter can share more about the specific salary range for your preferred location during the hiring process.

San Francisco Salary Range

$90,200 - $112,700 USD