Data Analyst
Arlington, VA
Welcome to Planet. We believe in using space to help life on Earth.

Planet designs, builds, and operates the largest constellation of imaging satellites in history. This constellation delivers an unprecedented dataset of empirical information via a revolutionary cloud-based platform to authoritative figures in commercial, environmental, and humanitarian sectors. We are both a space company and data company all rolled into one.

Customers and users across the globe use Planet's data to develop new technologies, drive revenue, power research, and solve our world’s toughest obstacles.

As we control every component of hardware design, manufacturing, data processing, and software engineering, our office is a truly inspiring mix of experts from a variety of domains.

We have a people-centric approach toward culture and community and we strive to iterate in a way that puts our team members first and prepares our company for growth. Join Planet and be a part of our mission to change the way people see the world.

Planet is a global company with employees working remotely world wide and joining us from offices in San Francisco, Washington DC, Germany, Austria, Slovenia, and The Netherlands.

About the Role:

We are seeking a Data Analyst to join our Data Team. The ideal candidate is curious, passionate, data-driven, and believes in Planet’s mission and values. You will gain first-hand experience in geospatial and enterprise data modeling and analysis. You’ll build data products and solutions such as dashboards, self-service tooling, and data pipelines for consumers across Planet, leveraging tools including git, dbt, python, SQL and Omni. What you deliver will be used to improve satellite collection performance, user experience research, business strategy, and overall customer satisfaction.

This is a full-time, hybrid role which will require you to work from our San Francisco, CA or Arlington, VA office 3 days per week.

Impact You'll Own:

Analyze and visualize data to drive insights and inform product, business or operational problems
Work with key stakeholders across the business to define metrics to measure product and business performance
Develop and own robust, accurate data models as well as maintain, troubleshoot, and improve existing ones
Build datasets into self-service data tools leveraging modern data tooling 
Contribute to a team of Data Scientists, Analysts and Engineers through discussions and code reviews
What You Bring:

4+ years of relevant experience
Bachelors’ degree, technical certification, or equivalent
Expertise in SQL and python for data cleaning, aggregation and analytics 
Experience with git or other version control
Familiarity with enterprise cloud platforms
Reliability and accuracy in analytics work
Experience working in a dynamic environment serving multiple stakeholder groups with different needs and technical ability
Familiarity with geospatial data use cases
What Makes You Stand Out:

Experience with the modern data stack: Fivetran, dbt, Looker/Omni/Sigma, or similar
Experience enabling go to market teams with customer and financial data
Familiarity with enterprise cloud platforms (GCP preferred)
Application Deadline:

November 17, 2026 at 11:59p PT

Benefits While Working at Planet:

These offerings are dependent on employment type and geographical location, based upon applicable law or company policy.

Comprehensive Medical, Dental, and Vision plans
Health Savings Account (HSA) with a company contribution
Generous Paid Time Off in addition to holidays and company-wide days off 
16 Weeks of Paid Parental Leave
Wellness Program and Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
Home Office Reimbursement
Monthly Phone and Internet Reimbursement
Tuition Reimbursement and access to LinkedIn Learning
Equity
Commuter Benefits (if local to an office)
Volunteering Paid Time Off
Compensation:

The US base salary range for this full-time position at the commencement of employment is listed below. Additionally, this role might be eligible for discretionary short-term and long-term incentives (bonus and equity). The final salary range is determined by job related experience, skills and location. The range displays our typical hiring range for new hire salaries in US locations only. Your recruiter can share more about the specific salary range for your preferred location during the hiring process.

US National Salary Range

$100,300 - $125,400 USD