Supply Planner, Apparel
Annecy, France
Employees work in a hybrid mode
Full-time
Company Description
Amer Sports is a sporting goods company with internationally recognized brands including Salomon, Arc’teryx, Peak Performance, Atomic and Wilson.

“The Mountain Sport Company”, Salomon was born in 1947 in the heart of the French Alps and the birthplace of modern alpinism. Salomon’s commitment to innovative design and passion for mountain sports created a vast range of revolutionary new concepts in bindings, boots, skis and apparel for both Alpine and Nordic skiing and brought innovative solutions to footwear, apparel and equipment for snowboarding, adventure racing, mountaineering, hiking, trail running, and many other sports.

Through performance driven design, Salomon delivers innovation and progression to mountain sports; converting new ideas into action and expanding the limits of possibility. Salomon’s heritage, culture, and commitment are tied together by one simple concept: the world’s leading mountain people creating the world’s leading mountain products. Salomon is responsibly committed towards the outdoor through its sustainability program. Diversity is one of Salomon’s five values, therefore we are committed to creating an inclusive environment for all.

Salomon is headquartered in Annecy, France.

Job Description
We are looking for a Supply Planner to join our Global Softgoods Supply Chain department! 

In this role, the Supply Planner will have for objective to contribute to the S&OP process in defining purchasing requirements based on demand, inventory strategy and capacity plans. He/She will aim to maximize service level and stock in line with the brand financial targets and sourcing strategy. 

The ideal candidate will be in charge of: 

Support pre-SOP Supply plan definition 

Build mid and long term Supply plans based on available dataset along Salomon product range creation process 

Support vendor capacity negotiations bringing Supply and Inventory visibility to stakeholders 

Execute product purchasing within the S&OP drumbeat 

Convert Demand plans into Supply plans 

Analyze capacity constrains and level load production schedules according to company priorities 

Execute purchases and deliver forecast for future buys 

Alert, mitigate and escalate deviations from the initial production plan to the leadership team 

Own responsible purchasing practices (FLA) : 

The Supply planner will be responsible for upholding Fair Labor Association’s Workplace Code of Conduct and Principles of Fair Labor and Responsible Sourcing throughout the supply chain 

By working closely with the Salomon Global Sustainability Team with regards to ensuring the continuous improvement of our responsible purchasing practices. 

By working closely with the Amer Sports Global Sourcing Vendor Sustainability team on quarterly business reviews and training/capacity building (at least annually) 

By adhering to negotiated lead times and balanced annual capacities to expedite responsible purchasing practices as outlined in the Responsible Sourcing Policy. 

Participate to project and continuous improvement initiatives:  

Participate in continuous improvement projects, enhancing planning accuracy, optimizing replenishment processes, and improving end‑to‑end supply reliability. 

Support data structuring and KPI development, ensuring robust performance monitoring, better demand/supply alignment, and fact‑based decision‑making. 

Qualifications
We welcome entry-level candidates (recent graduate or early-career professional) with a Master's degree in Supply Chain, Logistics, Engineering, Business, or a related field. An initial experience in supply chain, operations, planning, procurement, or a related environment is considered a plus. 

Required qualifications and skills: 

Advanced proficiency in Microsoft Excel 

Strong analytical and problem-solving skills, with excellent attention to detail 

Ability to thrive in a fast-paced, complex, and evolving environment 

Strong organizational skills, rigor, and ability to manage multiple priorities 

Excellent stakeholder management and communication skills 

Fluency in English (written and spoken) 

Preferred qualifications: 

Exposure to ERP systems such as SAP 

Knowledge of supply chain planning, S&OP, procurement, or manufacturing processes 

Experience working with data analysis and reporting tools (Power BI is a plus) 

Understanding of database management and data structures 

Fluency in French is a plus 

 
The essential competencies required for this role are as followed : 

Drive for Results : an ability to find new ways to get things done, consistently exceed goals, and proactively improve upon established processes and standard operating procedures. 

Critical Thinking : an ability to analyse situations and information, form objective judgments, and solve problems effectively.  

Process orientation : an ability to anticipate needs for new processes and necessary implementations. 

Communication : an ability to reformulate what is heard using simple words, being articulate, clear and concise, and showing good negotiation skills. 

Collaboration : an ability to work with partners to improve performance and share best practices. 

Additional Information
Full-time permanent contract, based in Annecy, France 

Start date: ASAP