Job Description - Business Analyst 2 (26142284)
Position Title:
 
Business Analyst 2 - (26142284)
 

To be considered for this position you must complete the state application and attach all required documents through the Montana State Careers site at  www.statecareers.mt.gov.

 

The Montana Department of Public Health and Human Services (DPHHS) has a career opportunity within the Early Childhood and Family Support Division.

 

This position serves as a Business Analyst for the Early Childhood and Family Support Division. The position assumes tasks related to a wide variety of the Division's programs and strategic initiatives such as: develop recommendations for process improvements; assist in the development, design, implementation, and training of policy and procedures; data report development and writing; develop, document, and execute system test plans. The position must be able to step into the business of varied programs, conduct research on projects, and develop options and communicate this information through a variety of delivery mediums. The position regularly communicates the status of projects with appropriate Division personnel, including Senior Leadership. The position recommends and implements efficiencies in Department wide practices such as administrative rules, outreach, policies, and procedures, etc.

  

 

Why Join DPHHS

 

Our mission at DPHHS is serving Montanans in their communities to improve health, safety, well-being, and empower independence. By joining our department, you will have the opportunity to perform meaningful work in public service to our state and its residents.

 

The State of Montana's comprehensive benefits package includes healthcare coverage, retirement plans, paid vacation, sick leave, and holidays, work/life balance, and eligibility to participate in the Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) program. In addition, DPHHS is the largest state agency with a wide range of advancement opportunities whether you are joining the workforce or have several years of experience.

 
Qualifications for this Career Opportunity

 

Ability to take a logical approach to problems, understanding, comprehending, and defining issues and approaches.

Ability to utilize active listening skills and understand the viewpoints of others.
Ability to develop a shared understanding of a project by all parties involved.

Meet minimum qualifications:

Bachelor's degree in English, Journalism, Communications, Business, Computer Science, Public or Health Administration; Social Sciences or related field.
3+ years of work experience in a related field, including experience researching and writing business related technical documents and outreach.

Other combinations of education and experience will be considered on a case-by-case basis.

Experience using Excel, SQL, Tableau, and/or MS Access preferred

 

How to Apply

 

To be considered for a DPHHS position, submit the following required documents with your application on the State of Montana Careers website. When submitting the required documents, you must check the "relevant document" box to ensure your attachments are uploaded correctly to your application for this position.

Cover Letter

Resume

References

 

Successful applicants will be subject to background checks relevant to the position and must pass reference checks before an offer will be extended. DPHHS is an equal opportunity employer. Women, minorities, and people with disabilities are encouraged to apply. For a copy of the full job description or if you need a reasonable accommodation in the application or hiring process, contact DPHHS Human Resources listed below.

 

Additional Information

 

 

This position may be eligible for partial telework within the state of Montana. Specific conditions will be provided by the supervisor and must adhere to state policy.

 
Applicant Pool Statement:  If another department vacancy occurs in this job title within six months, the same applicant pool may be used for the selection.
 
Training Assignment:  This agency may use a training assignment. Employees in training assignments may be paid below the base pay established by the agency pay rules. Conditions of the training assignment will be stated in writing at the time of hire.
 
 
Salary: $ 34.30 - 34.30  Hourly
 
  
 
Telework Eligibility:  Telework Eligible (Full-time telework is not available. Telework schedule must be supervisor approved.)
 
Benefits Package Eligibility:  Health Insurance, Paid Leave & Holidays, Retirement Plan
 
  
 
 
Number of Openings:  1
 
Employee Status:  Regular
 
Schedule:  Full-Time
 
Job Type:  Standard
 
Shift:  Day Job
 
Travel:  Yes, 10 % of the Time
 
 
Primary Location:  Helena
 
Other Locations:  Billings, Missoula, Kalispell, Bozeman, Great Falls
 
Agency:  Department of Public Health & Human Services
 
Union:  Montana Federation of Public Employees
 
 
Posting Date:  Sep 10, 2026, 9:28:38 AM
 
Closing Date (based on your computer's timezone):  Oct 1, 2026, 11:59:00 PM
 
Required Application Materials:  Cover Letter, Resume, References
 
 
Contact Name:  Makayla Mangold  |  Contact Email:  makayla.mangold2@mt.gov  |  Contact Phone:  406-444-3136
 
Anyone who needs to request a reasonable accommodation in the application or hiring process should contact the HR staff identified on the job listing or by dialing the Montana Relay at 711. Montana Job Service Offices also offer services including assistance with submitting an online application.

State government does not discriminate based on race, color, national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, pregnancy, childbirth or medical conditions related to pregnancy or childbirth, age, physical or mental disability, genetic information, marital status, creed, political beliefs or affiliation, veteran status, military service, retaliation, or any other factor not related to merit and qualifications of an employee or applicant.