Travel Data Analyst (Transportation Planning Technician 3)
    
﻿
Salary
$59,760.00 - $80,496.00 Annually

Location 
Thurston County – Tumwater, WA

Job Type
Full Time - Permanent

Remote Employment
Flexible/Hybrid

Job Number
26DOT-HQ-01004

Department
Dept. of Transportation

Division
Headquarters

Opening Date
09/01/2026

Closing Date
9/15/2026 11:59 PM Pacific

Description
Benefits
Questions
Description
An image without description

About WSDOT

The Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT) is a multimodal agency with a global reputation for excellence. Our dedicated workforce plans, designs, builds, and operates an integrated transportation system that safely and efficiently moves people and goods throughout the state. In addition to maintaining over 20,000 lane miles of state highway and 4,100 bridges, WSDOT leads an award-winning Active Transportation Plan, manages the world's longest floating bridge, and operates the largest ferry system in the nation!



The Opportunity

WSDOT is currently seeking a transportation data professional to support the collection, analysis, and reporting of reliable traffic information used to inform transportation decisions across Washington. This position plays an important role in transforming traffic data into meaningful information that supports policy, planning, research, safety, and roadway design. By helping ensure transportation data is accurate, accessible, and useful, this role enables WSDOT and its partners to make informed decisions that strengthen the safety and reliability of the state’s transportation system. This position contributes to WSDOT’s commitment to providing safe, reliable, and cost-effective transportation options while advancing the Transportation Data, GIS, and Modeling Office’s goal of making better decisions through better data.



What to Expect

Among the varied range of responsibilities held within this role, you/the Travel Data Analyst will:

Analyze traffic volume, speed, and classification data to identify inaccuracies, atypical values, and incomplete data and take appropriate corrective action.
Process short-duration traffic counts, including reviewing documentation, estimating daily volumes, merging data files, and validating traffic statistics.
Provide guidance to field technicians to ensure data collection complies with coding protocols and processing requirements.
Monitor permanent traffic recorder data, document accuracy issues, and coordinate with appropriate staff to resolve data problems.
Provide backup support for traffic recorder polling, time checks, problem tracking, and year-end data edits.
Fulfill and document internal and external traffic data requests and direct customers to appropriate WSDOT resources.
Maintain procedures and institutional knowledge through documentation, staff training, and cross-training.
Identify and support improvements to traffic data processing procedures and practices.


Qualifications

To be considered for this opportunity, the following competencies are required:

Experience using strong attention to detail, critical thinking, and analysis skills to effectively perform data processing and/or analysis on medium to large datasets with a high degree of spatial and temporal variability. This includes a focus on identifying data anomalies and determining their source, as well as effectively summarizing the data using descriptive statistics and visualizations.
Experience assessing priorities, managing workloads, and achieving tasks within expectations of quality and timeliness. 
Skills and abilities to perform job functions with limited supervision, while maintaining a high level of productivity. 
Ability to receive input and communicate clearly and effectively, both verbally and in writing. This includes written composition skills sufficient to update procedures manuals in a clear and comprehensive fashion. 
Skills and abilities to work effectively within a team to support data-related goals. This includes experience demonstrating responsibility, adaptability, and interpersonal skills (empathy, conflict resolution, active listening, etc.). 
Ability to maintain high levels of concentration over long periods to minimize errors during repetitive tasks. 
Ability and desire to critically assess current processes and provide suggested improvements to achieve efficiencies or bring products in closer alignment with customer needs. 
Ability to work at a computer for hours at a time. 
General computer literacy, including proficiency with databases, the internet, and the Microsoft Office suite of software. 
Demonstrates a desire for learning and growth. 
Demonstrates a willingness to take action to meet the needs of others. 


It is preferred that qualified candidates also demonstrate:

•Experience processing traffic count data, including accurately evaluating and summarizing such data using an advanced knowledge of temporal variation in traffic patterns, spatial variation in traffic patterns, and traffic counting equipment and methods.

•Experience coding data to the WSDOT linear referencing system and/or analyzing data coded to that system.

•Intermediate to advanced proficiency with Microsoft Excel.



Important Notes 

This position is eligible for remote work up to 100%, per supervisor’s approval and works a Monday through Friday schedule, five 8-hour days, from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Occasional travel may be required, such as attending a conference, typically no more than once per year.
In addition to base salary, employees may be entitled to other forms of compensation depending on the type, duties, or location of the position. For union-represented positions, more information on other forms of compensation can be found in the applicable Collective Bargaining Agreements. Information on other compensation types for non-represented positions can be found in Chapter 357-28of the Washington Administrative Code. 
WSDOT does not use the E-Verify system, therefore we are not eligible to extend STEM Optional Practical Training (OPT). For more information, please visit www.uscis.gov


Why WSDOT 

Work-Life Balance – We are committed to ensure that our staff experience the reward of public service, while also sustaining a routine that suits each individuals’ lifestyle. As such, there are a number of flexible schedule options available, including telework options for eligible positions.  
Paid Leave – In addition to 12 paid holidays, full-time employees may earn up to 25 paid vacation days per year!
Tuition Assistance – Permanent employees have several options for assistance with education expenses, including tuition reimbursement programs, government discounts at participating colleges throughout the state, and eligibility for federal student loan forgiveness.  
Plan For Your Future – WSDOT offers a comprehensive benefits package that includes a variety of healthcare options. Employees also have their choice of state retirement programs, and much more. Go to State Benefits for more information. 

How to Apply

Applications for this recruitment will be accepted electronically. Your relevant experience may be evaluated to determine salary. Therefore, it is very important that the “Work Experience” portion of the application be completed in as much detail as possible. 

In order to be considered for this opportunity, please include the following with your online application

An attached Resume outlining (in reverse chronological order) your experience to date.
An attached Cover Letter that further explains your qualifications and indicates why you believe you are a viable candidate for this role.
Contact details for a minimum three (3) individuals who can attest to your work performance, technical skills, and job-related competencies. This information can be entered in the “References” section of the online application; does not require an additional attachment.