DSHS HCLA Performance Outcomes and Data Analyst
    
﻿
Salary
$54,888.00 - $111,936.00 Annually

Location 
Thurston County – Lacey, WA

Job Type
Full Time - Permanent

Remote Employment
Flexible/Hybrid

Job Number
2026-07335

Department
Dept. of Social and Health Services

Division
HCLA

Opening Date
09/10/2026

Closing Date
9/17/2026 11:59 PM Pacific

Description
Benefits
Description
DSHS HCLA Performance Outcomes and Data Analyst

The Department of Social and Health Services (DSHS) and the Home and Community Living Administration (HCLA) are looking for their newest Performance Outcomes and Data Analyst. This newly created position contributes to the division’s ability to monitor operational performance, improve reporting consistency, support informed operational decision-making, and promote the health, safety, and well-being of vulnerable adults residing in licensed and certified long-term care settings throughout Washington State.

Working closely with the Business Intelligence Analyst, you’ll assist in developing business intelligence solutions, improving data quality, and translating business needs into meaningful analytical products.

If collecting and telling stories with data sounds exciting to you, then we want to hear from you!

Some of What You’ll Do

Analyze and interpret RCS performance and operational data
Assist and support the Development and maintenance of reports generation, dashboards, scorecards and performance measures
Respond to and prioritize data requests
Validate data and monitor data quality
Collaborate closely with the Office Chief of Business Operations, Business Intelligence Analyst, and RCS program staff.
Who we Want In This Role

Knowledge

Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration, Public Administration, Statistics, Data Analytics, Statistics, Information Systems, Computer Science, Economics, Mathematics, Social Sciences, or a closely related field.

AND

Minimum of two years of professional experience in data analysis, performance measurement, business intelligence, program evaluation, reporting, or a related analytical field.

Or:

Equivalent combinations of education and professional experience in data analysis, performance measurement, business intelligence, program evaluation or a related field may substitute for the year per year of educational requirements.

Skills and Abilities

Experience creating, collecting, validating, analyzing, and interpreting data from multiple sources to support business or operational decisions.
Experience developing reports, dashboards, scorecards, and data visualizations using reporting and business intelligence tools.
Experience presenting analytical findings and recommendations to management, stakeholders, or program staff.
Demonstrated experience utilizing SQL and other data analysis, reporting, and business intelligence applications to collect, manage, analyze and present data in support of operational, programmatic, and strategic objectives.
Experience working with databases, data management practices, and performance metrics.
Range of consideration for this opening is $80,169-103,149.

To Apply

Tell us about your experience, leadership philosophy, strengths, and perspective. We're less interested in finding someone who checks every box and more interested in finding someone who is a team player, quick learning and has a desire to learn our systems. 

Completed Application
Cover Letter
Resume