Position Title:
GIS Analyst - (26141763)

The Montana Department of Transportation is recruiting for a GIS Analyst. This position serves as a professional transportation planner and GIS application expert within the Geospatial Information Section and is responsible for planning and managing statewide GIS data and services, GIS mapping projects including managing the development of official map publications. This position is also responsible for conducting specific GIS road inventory projects, producing and maintaining a variety of specialized interactive and printed maps, while also performing a variety of other duties as assigned. 

This position is part of a career ladder with career advancement opportunities.

For a full job description, please contact Thomas Skoog at tskoog@mt.gov.

 

 

Benefits of working for MDT and the State of Montana include:

       Culture of public service and a commitment to work/life balance

       Potential hybrid remote work arrangement available

       Health, Dental, and Vision Insurance

       Access to Montana Health Centers, low-cost clinics for state employees and their families

       State Retirement plan and additional savings opportunities (deferred compensation)

       Employees in this position receive overtime compensation or compensatory time for all time in a pay status over 40 hours in a workweek

       Paid vacation, sick leave, and holidays

       Eligibility for Public Service Student Loan Forgiveness

       Benefits apply on first day of employment

       Relocation assistance may be offered to the successful candidate at the time of offer

 

 

For information on the Montana Department of Transportation’s mission, vision, and values, please visit our website: https://www.mdt.mt.gov/about.aspx#values

 
Minimum Qualifications:

The required knowledge and skills are typically acquired through a combination of education and experience equivalent to a BA/BS in Planning, Computer Information Systems, Business or a related field. 

This position requires a minimum of 1 year of related experience.

Alternative qualifications include: Any combination of related work experience and education equivalent to the minimum qualifications.

 

Knowledge, Skills and Abilities:

Sound oral and written communication skills.
Establish productive, collaborative working relationships with co-workers, management, and customers.
Align behavior with the needs and goals of the department.
Visible, positive role model for others.
Proactively engage in training and discussions to expand awareness of how the position supports the department’s mission.
Exercise sound judgment and request guidance from senior planners and supervisor.
Understand and adhere to policies, procedures, rules, and laws that govern daily work activities.
Self-accountability for activities, decisions, successes, and failures.
Creative and forward-thinking problem solver.
Detail-oriented, flexible, reliable, and punctual.
Able to coordinate several activities at once.
 

Required Application Materials:

A resume detailing your qualifications and work history.

A cover letter of no more than two pages addressing your qualifications for the position.

       Your online application and all required materials must be submitted before midnight on the closing date. Ensure all materials submitted are selected as “Relevant.” If you need an accommodation with the application process, please contact the HR representative listed above.

 

Other Information:

 

Driver’s record will be verified. Successful applicants will be required to sign a release form which authorizes the Department to obtain the applicant’s permanent driving records. Compliance with Mont. Admin. R. 2.6.201, "State Vehicle Use," and MDT Policy #6.03.001, "State Vehicle Use Policy" are conditions of employment.This position is being posted in accordance with the bargaining unit agreement. Non-bargaining unit employees or employees of another bargaining unit may apply. If the position is not filled with a bargaining unit applicant, the non-bargaining unit applicants may be considered. However, bargaining unit applicants will have preference.

 

 

The Montana Department of Transportation is an equal opportunity employer. Women, racial and ethnic minorities, people with disabilities, and veterans and disabled veterans are encouraged to apply. People with disabilities needing assistance in the application process, or those needing this job announcement in an alternative format may call the Human Resources and Occupational Safety Division, at 406.444.6054.

 

 

The Montana Department of Transportation (MDT) is committed to continuous improvement of our employee safety program and our safety and health processes, and to achieving an injury-free workplace

Effective 5/26/2026, MDT is participating in E-Verify to confirm employment eligibility. After accepting a job offer and completing Form I-9, your information will be submitted to the Department of Homeland Security and Social Security Administration for verification. For more information about E-Verify, please visit the E-Verify website found here, https://www.e-verify.gov

 

This position is being posted in accordance with the bargaining unit agreement. Non-bargaining unit employees or employees of another bargaining unit may apply. If the position is not filled with a bargaining unit applicant, the non-bargaining unit applicants may be considered. However, bargaining unit applicants will have preference.

 
Applicant Pool Statement:  If another department vacancy occurs in this job title within six months, the same applicant pool may be used for the selection.
 
Training Assignment:  This agency may use a training assignment. Employees in training assignments may be paid below the base pay established by the agency pay rules. Conditions of the training assignment will be stated in writing at the time of hire.
 
 
Salary: $ 36.72 - 39.79  Hourly
 
  
 
Telework Eligibility:  Not Telework Eligible
 
Benefits Package Eligibility:  Health Insurance, Paid Leave & Holidays, Retirement Plan
 
  
 
 
Number of Openings:  1
 
Employee Status:  Regular
 
Schedule:  Full-Time
 
Job Type:  Standard
 
Shift:  Day Job
 
Travel:  Yes, 10 % of the Time
 
 
Primary Location:  Helena
 
  
 
Agency:  Department of Transportation
 
Union:  Montana Federation of Public Employees
 
 
Posting Date:  Jul 15, 2026, 11:16:36 AM
 
Closing Date (based on your computer's timezone):  Jul 30, 2026, 11:59:00 PM
 
Required Application Materials:  Cover Letter, Resume
 
 
Contact Name:  Tom Skoog  |  Contact Email:  tskoog@mt.gov  |  Contact Phone:  4064750709