To be considered, an applicant must submit a State of Texas application (available on the council's website) directly to The Texas Legislative Council via email, fax, or mail. 
POSTING NUMBER: 26007
SALARY$4,584.00 per month. The council provides a strong benefits package, including health, vision, and dental insurance and the State of Texas retirement plan, as well as compensatory time and paid vacation, sick leave, and state and federal holidays. 
Additionally, the council is located in the Robert E. Johnson building, which includes free on-site covered parking, and access to a bike cage, fitness facilities, exercise classes, and on-site showers. The University of Texas Capitol Complex Child Development Center is conveniently located next door in the Barbara Jordan Building.
DESCRIPTIONThe Texas Legislative Council is a nonpartisan agency that serves as a source of impartial research and information for the Texas Legislature, including the provision of redistricting data and software. The redistricting and mapping specialist is a multifaceted position that includes database maintenance, mapping services, and direct client communications. Duties include providing specialized support to redistricting stakeholders, researching updates to political geography, preparing redistricting and other policy maps, collecting and inputting election data, and interacting with legislative offices, other agencies, and the public. Assignments are directed and reviewed by senior staff, but are generally performed independently. Redistricting and mapping specialists are provided opportunities for professional development through internal and external training, workshops, and conferences.
RESPONSIBILITIESPrimary responsibilities for this position include:• Responding to requests for geographic data and redistricting information.• Collecting, inputting, and verifying data for geographic databases.• Assisting with election data collection and processing.• Preparing and reviewing basic maps, including redistricting and policy issue maps.• Testing geographic systems and analyzing data.• Providing support for redistricting clients over the phone, electronically, and one-on-one in legislative offices.• Assisting with evaluating data and procedures.• Performing other duties as assigned.
QUALIFICATIONSMinimum qualifications for this position include:Experience and Education• Graduation from an accredited four-year college or university or associate program in geographic information systems, or GIS certification.• Experience with data entry, mapping, and GIS applications.• Experience and education may be substituted for one another.Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities• Knowledge of elections and redistricting processes.• Knowledge of geographic research resources and databases.• Skill in working with complex databases.• Ability to work overtime and flexible hours including evenings, weekends, and holidays during legislative sessions and as otherwise required.• Ability to maintain confidentiality of material and information.• Ability to maintain professional appearance and demeanor.• Ability to express material accurately, clearly, and concisely, both orally and in writing.• Ability to analyze and present information in a neutral, unbiased manner.
TO APPLYTo be considered, an applicant must submit a cover letter that explains the applicant’s interest in the position and the reasons the applicant believes they meet the qualifications stated above, a resume, and a completed State of Texas Application for Employment (available on the council’s website: https://tlc.texas.gov/employment). Note: An applicant may include a completed electronic State of Texas Application for employment without signing it. The applicant’s signature may be provided at a later date.Submit requested documentation by:
EmailTLCCareers@tlc.texas.gov (preferred method)
Fax(512) 936-1064
MailHuman Resources OfficeTexas Legislative CouncilP.O. Box 12128, Capitol StationAustin, Texas 78711-2128
As a condition of employment, legal proof of authorization to work in the U.S. must be provided.Requests for accommodation and/or services in the application process should be made to the above-cited contact.