Temporary Language Instructors, Defense Language and Security Studies Program
    
﻿
Salary
See Position Description

Location 
Missoula Mountain Campus

Job Type
Temporary Hourly Staff

Job Number
202400779

Department
Mansfield Center Administration, University of Montana

Opening Date
09/03/2026

Closing Date
Continuous

FLSA
Determined by Position

Description
Benefits
Description
The Mansfield Center’s Defense Language and Security Studies Program (DLSSP) at the University of Montana, is establishing a pool of Temporary Language Instructors to provide intensive language instruction to military students on an as-needed basis. Courses will range from one day to one year in length. Target languages include Arabic (MSA, Levantine, Egyptian), Persian Farsi, Mandarin Chinese, Korean, French, Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish. 



The positions are located in Missoula, MT or may be taught remotely. Additional locations are also possible dependent upon mission requirements. Due to instruction being conducted at multiple training sites, some travel may be required. 

Examples of Duties and Responsibilities
Develop and deliver intensive language instruction to U.S. military and government personnel in in-person and virtual formats.
Prepare daily lessons, manage classrooms, complete instructional administration, and develop supplemental curriculum and learning materials.
Expected workload: 5–6 hours of teaching and 2–3 hours of preparation and administrative work per day.
Student grading, attendance tracking, progress reports, counseling, and academic intervention.
Maintaining course materials and grades in Canvas.
Assist Lead Instructors with the development of course curricula, syllabi, and instructional materials.
Develop and revise course materials for classroom use and publication during periods when courses are not in session.
Provide instruction in language, cultural studies, and regional studies, including topics such as geography, history, literature, natural resources, economy, government, and ethnicities.
Apply current language-teaching methodologies and effectively integrate instructional technology, virtual platforms, and the Canvas learning management system.
Teach independently by developing and implementing course syllabi and instructional plans with minimal oversight.
Collaborate effectively with other instructors through team teaching, course coordination, and shared curriculum development.
Maintain high proficiency in the target language and strong English communication skills to support effective instruction and professional collaboration.
Minimum Qualifications
Master’s degree.
Experience teaching language and culture.
Experience developing curriculum and instructional materials for the target language.
Ability to develop and implement curricula and syllabi based on program needs and requirements of military partners.
Knowledge of current language-teaching methodologies and classroom practices, including experience using instructional and classroom technologies.
Ability to work effectively both independently and as part of a collaborative team.
Applicant may be required to take the Oral Proficiency Interview (OPI) before selection; must score superior in target language and advanced in English.
Preferred Qualifications

Experience in intensive language instruction, particularly in a military or government setting.
Ph.D.
Additional Information
Pay rate depends on the position, duration, and adherence to the MUS Staff Compensation Plan.
 
 Benefits depend on the hours and duration of the position.



To be apply, please submit the following materials: 

Letter of Interest – addressing your qualifications and experience related to the stated required skills for the position. A general letter salutation such as “Dear Search Committee” or “Dear Hiring Manager” is acceptable.
Detailed Resume – listing education and describing work experience.
Three (3) Professional References – names and contact information.

Must be eligible to work in the United States upon hire. Sponsorship is not available for this position.

The University of Montana is interested in receiving applications from people who would assist the University in demonstrating its five priorities for action: Place student success at the center of all we do; drive excellence and innovation in teaching, learning, and research; embody the principle of “mission first, people always"; partner with place; and proudly tell the UM story.



The Affiliation of the University of Montana (UM Affiliation) is an equal opportunity employer.  UM Affiliation does not discriminate against any applicant on the basis of protected class status as described in UM’s non-discrimination policy and any applicable law. Reasonable accommodations are provided in the hiring process for persons with disabilities. For example, this material is available in alternative format upon request. Qualified candidates may request veterans’ or disabilities preference in accordance with state law.

Criminal Background Investigation is required prior to the offer of employment. In accordance with university regulations, finalists for this position will be subject to criminal background investigations.

References: References not listed on the application materials may be contacted; notice may be provided to the applicant. UM partners with SkillSurvey for reference checking.  Applicants may receive emails from SkillSurvey to submit reference information. 

Testing: Individual hiring departments within the UM Affiliation may elect to administer pre-employment tests, which are relevant to essential job functions.

Employment Eligibility: All New Employees must be eligible and show employment eligibility verification by the first date of employment at UM and all affiliated campuses, as legally required (e.g., Form I-9). The University of Montana will require proof of authorization to work in the United States before final hiring. Due to the September 19, 2025 Presidential Proclamation and related guidance from USCIS and the Department of State, the University may be limited in its ability to offer H-1B sponsorship. At this time, we are unable to sponsor new H-1B visas that require payment of the additional fee introduced by the Proclamation.