Geologist (Map Editor)
Department of the Interior
Geological Survey
Science Publishing Network

Summary
You will serve as a Geologist (Map Editor) for the Science Publishing Network.

Pay will vary based on grade level and/or duty location for which you're selected. First time hires to the Federal government normally start at the step 1 rate.

This announcement is only open to the first 100 applicants. Once the application limit has been reached, the announcement will automatically close at 11:59 pm EST on the day the limit is reached, regardless of the established closing date.

Duties
Help

Some of the major duties you will perform include but are not limited to the following:

Review and edit a wide variety of scientific and technical publications (from geologic maps to multichaptered technical products) that deliver the results of USGS's multidisciplinary science to the public.
Use professional knowledge of geology to critically review geologic maps and accompanying materials for their adequacy, clarity, consistency of data presentation, and correctness and validity of geologic interpretations.
Perform substantive and technical editing, copyediting, proofreading, and cross-checking of all components of draft publications, ensuring correct grammar, spelling, punctuation, style, plain language, and other editorial standards.
Review maps and accompanying text, illustrations, structure cross sections, explanations, and tables for technical accuracy, clarity, consistency, organization, and format.
Review and inspect proofs to eliminate errors and to ensure that instructions have been followed, information product layouts meet accepted standards, data are presented clearly, and the job is complete.
Provide diplomatic, clear, and professional reviews, advice, and communication to authors, managers, and other team members.
Serve as a project manager, balancing multiple products at a time, and track and monitor progress through a multistage, digital publishing workflow to meet tight deadlines.
Work individually and as part of a team to prepare and release map products and other publications.
Duties will be developmental in nature when filled below the full performance level.

Requirements
Help
Conditions of employment

Must provide proof of U.S. citizenship.
Appointment subject to background investigation and favorable adjudication.
Males born after 12-31-59 must be registered for Selective Service.
Direct Deposit participation required.
Successfully pass the E-Verify employment verification check. To learn more, visit www.dhs.gov/EVerify/.
You are required to complete training, obtain and maintain a government credit card with travel and purchase authority.
As a condition of employment for accepting this position, you will be required to serve a 1-year probationary period during which your fitness and whether your continued employment advances the public interest will be evaluated.

This probationary period is an extension of the appointment process and therefore requires the agency to determine if continued employment would advance the public interest, meet the organization goals and mission of the agency, and/or otherwise promote the efficiency of the service. In determining if your employment advances the public interest, the agency will consider:
your performance and conduct;
the needs and interests of the agency;
whether your continued employment would advance organizational goals of the agency or the Government; and
whether your continued employment would advance the efficiency of the Federal service.
Under applicable law, the employment of an individual serving a probationary or trial period automatically terminates when that period ends unless the agency affirmatively certifies, in writing, that the individual's employment should continue and that their appointment should be finalized. In the absence of agency action to affirmatively certify continued employment beyond the probationary or trial period, such appointments are terminated.

Upon completion of your probationary period, your employment will be terminated unless you receive certification, in writing, that your continued employment advances the public interest
Qualifications

All qualifications must be met by the closing date of this announcement-09/03/2026-unless otherwise stated in this vacancy announcement.

To receive credit for experience, your resume MUST state either "full-time" (or "40 hours a week") or "part-time" with the number of hours worked per week to ensure proper crediting of specialized experience. Failure to adequately provide information needed to determine the number of hours worked in each position may result in that time not being credited when evaluating qualifying experience. For periods of time that reflect military service, the DD-214 or Statement of Service is sufficient to meet the full and/or part-time hours requirement as the service dates will be reflected.

Minimum Qualification Requirements: To qualify for this position, you must meet the following minimum qualifications:
Basic Educational Requirement AND/OR Specialized Experience for the series to which you are applying.

Basic Educational Requirements: In addition to the specialized experience requirements for this position, you must meet at least one of the following:

A. Degree: Successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in geology. In addition to the geology course work included in the degree, it must also have included or been supplemented by 20 additional semester hours in any combination of mathematics, physics, chemistry, biological science, structural, chemical, civil, mining or petroleum engineering, computer science, planetary geology, comparative planetology, geophysics, meteorology, hydrology, oceanography, physical geography, marine geology, and cartography. You must submit transcripts.
-OR-
B. Combination of education and experience: combination of education and experience which includes 24 semester hours or equivalent in geology plus 20 additional semester hours or equivalent in a combination of courses specified in choice 1, plus appropriate experience and/or additional education totaling 4 years.
-AND-

To qualify for this position at the GS-09 grade level:
Specialized Experience Requirement: you must possess at least one full year of specialized experience equivalent to the GS-07 level in the Federal service (obtained in either the public or private sectors). Specialized experience must include: assisting higher-level geologists in carrying out geologic assignments, compiling information and data onto geologic maps, writing up the results of the assignments, fact-checking, and ensuring that the written report matches the data and information collected. Additional examples of such experience may include copyediting geologic reports from other geologists into a larger compilation report; editing a regular newsletter, journal, or other professional communication product for public dissemination; or reviewing and editing other people's maps and text as part of preparing these products for publication. This work experience would have involved reviewing submitted work for technical mistakes not only in the geology, but also grammar, spelling, and punctuation; using some judgment in applying editorial style and consistency across multiple products from different authors; and would have required a good working knowledge of the principles of writing and editing, including sentence structure, overall organization and clarity, and editorial style.. You must include hours per week worked.
-OR-
Education: Successful completion of at least 2 years of progressively higher-level graduate education leading to a master's degree or master's or equivalent graduate degree in the fields described in the question above. You must include transcripts.
-OR-
Combination of education and experience: A combination of successfully completed higher level graduate education and specialized experience to meet the total qualification requirements for the grade level specified above. You must include hours per week and transcripts.
Volunteer Experience: Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religious; spiritual; community, student, social). Volunteer work helps build critical competencies, knowledge, and skills and can provide valuable training and experience that translates directly to paid employment. You will receive credit for all qualifying experience, including volunteer experience.
Education

This position has a mandatory education requirement.

You must submit a copy of your transcript(s) to support claimed education if substituting education for experience. Transcripts must include your name, school name, grades, credit hours earned, major(s), grade point average or class ranking, and date the degree was conferred, if applicable. A typed list of courses, grades, semester/quarter hours, GPA, etc. will not be accepted. Non-submission may result in being rated not qualified for the position. Unofficial transcripts are acceptable, but if you are selected for this position and you used your education to qualify, you must provide official transcripts before you begin work.

Foreign Education: To receive credit for education completed outside the United States, you must show proof that the education has been submitted to a private organization that specializes in interpretation of foreign educational credentials and such education has been deemed at least equivalent to that gained in conventional U.S. education programs. Recognition of Foreign Qualifications | U.S. Department of Education. https://www.ed.gov/about/initiatives/international-affairs/recognition-of-foreign-qualification

How you will be evaluated
You will be evaluated for this job based on how well you meet the qualifications above.


Your qualifications will be evaluated based on your application materials (e.g. resume, supporting documents), the responses you provide on the application questionnaire, and the result of any additional assessment(s) required for this position.

Your resume must not exceed 2 pages. Only the document submitted as the "Resume" under the Documents section will be used to determine your qualifications/eligibility and for rating purposes. In the event you submit more than one resume, only the latest submission will be reviewed.

Candidates will be rated and ranked using Category Rating procedures. These procedures place candidates with veteran's preference above non-preference eligibles within each category. Veterans with a service-connected disability of at least 10 percent are listed in the highest quality category, except when the position being filled is scientific or professional at the GS-09 grade level or higher. Under Category Rating, candidates will be rated and ranked into the following categories:

Best Qualified - applicants possessing experience that substantially exceeds the minimum qualifications of the position including all selective factors and are highly proficient in all requirements of the job and can perform effectively in the position

Well Qualified - applicants possessing experience that exceeds the minimum qualifications of the position including all selective factors and are proficient in most of the requirements of the job

Qualified - applicants possessing experience that meets the minimum qualifications of the position including all selective factors and are proficient in some, but not all of the requirements of the job.

You will be assessed in the following competencies (knowledge, skills, abilities, and other characteristics):

Communication and Relationship Building
Geologic Mapping
Scientific Publishing and Project Management
Technical Editing

If fewer than three eligible and available candidates per vacancy result, the agency will expand the group of candidates in accordance with the pre-announced supplement strategy and 5 CFR 332.402(f).
Overstating your qualifications and/or experience in your application materials or application questionnaire may result in your removal from consideration. Cheating on an assessment may also result in your removal from consideration.

To be considered for this position, you must complete all required steps in the process. In addition to the application and application questionnaire, this position requires successful completion of additional assessment(s), including a structured resume review. These assessments measure the critical competencies listed above that are required to successfully perform the job.

Current or former displaced Federal employees who are surplus, displaced, or involuntarily separated have special priority selection rights under the Agency Career Transition Assistance Program (CTAP) or the Interagency Career Transition Assistance Program (ICTAP). To be considered under CTAP/ICTAP, you must be well-qualified, score at least 85 (i.e., meet the minimum qualification requirements, including any selective placement factors; education, and experience requirements), and be able to perform the duties of the position upon entry.

Agency contact information
Christine Jewett
Email
christine_jewett@ios.doi.gov