This job has an exam requirement. Currently, applicants for this posting who do not yet have an exam score are being
invited to take the exam. Examining will continue until capacity has been reached.
Job Title
RURAL CARR ASSOC/SRV REG RTE
Facility Location
ARLEE PO
92441 US HIGHWAY 93
ARLEE, MT 59821
CONTACT INFORMATION: Melodie Stephens | melodie.l.stephens@usps.gov | (406) 726-3262 | POSTMASTER
Position Information
Title: RURAL CARR ASSOC/SRV REG RTE
FLSA Designation: Non-Exempt
Occupation Code: 2325-07XX
Non-Scheduled Days: VARIES
Hours: VARIES
RCAs must be available to work on an as needed basis.
DRIVING REQUIRED: Applicants must have a valid state driver’s license, a safe driving record, and at least two years of
unsupervised experience driving passenger cars or larger. The driving must have taken place in the U.S. or its possessions
or territories or in U.S. military installations worldwide.
*A personal vehicle suitable for use may be required for this position*
Must be able to communicate in and understand the English language with or without a reasonable disability accommodation
under the Rehabilitation Act.
Postal Service employment is conditional upon your meeting medical suitability, general eligibility and suitability, and
background check requirements. Therefore, if you receive a job offer, note that it will be conditional upon you meeting these
requirements, even if you are allowed to begin working first.
For this vacancy announcement, the Postal Service will be using an assessment cut-off score to refer candidates for selection consideration.
BENEFIT INFORMATION:
This is a non-career position, which may lead to a career position. RCAs are immediately eligible to enroll in the USPS Health
Benefits Plan with a Postal Service premium contribution. Dental and vision insurance through the Federal Employees Dental
and Vision Insurance Program (FEDVIP). After completing one year without a break in service of more than 5 days, RCAs
may also be eligible for: health insurance under the Postal Service Health Benefits Program (PSHB); flexible spending
account through Inspira Financial and long-term care insurance through the Federal Long Term Care Insurance Program
(FLTCIP). May receive Wounded Warrior leave provided eligibility criteria are met.
SALARY RANGE: $21.89 per hour paid bi-weekly
FINANCE NUMBER: 290252
Persons Eligible to Apply
All U.S. Citizens, lawful permanent resident aliens, citizens of American Samoa or other territory owing permanent allegiance
to the United States. Applicants entitled to veterans’ preference and/or covered by the Veterans Employment Opportunity
Act may apply for any posted position. Applicants must apply online at www.usps.com/careers to be considered for this
employment opportunity. You must have a valid email address to apply as communication regarding employment
opportunities, examinations (when applicable), and background checks will be sent by email. Please add the following email
domain addresses to your contact list to allow all correspondence to be received - @usps.gov; @talogy.com; @geninfo.com;
@uspis.gov. EXAM: If an exam is required and you are invited to take the test, instructions regarding the exam process will
be sent to you via email. Please ensure you can receive email messages from our test vendor and follow instructions
carefully so you can be considered for this employment opportunity. SCREENINGS: You may receive multiple requests for
background checks in regards to this employment opportunity. Respond to all requests quickly as we anticipate filling our
vacancies quickly and nonresponses may result in disqualification for this opportunity.
Background Check
The Inspection Service criminal background check is conducted using United States information resources only (e.g., FBI
fingerprint check, state and county checks). A criminal background check involves a 10-year inquiry for any location where
the individual has resided, worked or gone to school within the United States or its territories. As a result of this limitation,
the criminal background checks of individuals who have not resided in the United States or its territories for the preceding
5-years may not be considered complete. The Inspection Service may be able to process inquiries for U.S. Citizens only,
but only if their time spent out of the country was spent as: a trailing spouse or dependent of someone working for the U.S.
government (military or civilian), a missionary, a student attending school in a foreign country, a Peace Corps participant, or
as an employee of a U.S.-based employer/company. If the Inspection Service is unable to perform a complete background
check because of residency outside the United States, such individuals will be ineligible for Postal employment.
Functional Purpose
Cases, delivers, and collects mail along a prescribed rural route using a vehicle; provides customers on the route with a
variety of services.

DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
1. Sorts mail in delivery sequence for the assigned route.
2. Receives and signs for accountable mail.
3. Loads mail in vehicle.
4. Delivers mail to customers along a prescribed route and on a regular schedule by a vehicle; collects monies and receipts
for accountable mail; picks up mail from customers' roadside boxes.
5. Sells stamps, stamped paper and money orders; accepts C.O.D., registered, certified, and insured mail and parcel post;
furnishes routine information concerning postal matters and provides requested forms to customer.
6. Returns mail collected, undeliverable mail, and submits monies and receipts to post office.
7. Prepares mail for forwarding and maintains records of change of address information.
8. Prepares a daily trip report and maintains a list of the customers on the route.
9. Conducts special surveys when required.
10. Maintains an inventory of stamps and stamped paper as needed to provide service to customers on the route.
11. Provides for mail security at all times.
Rural Carrier Associates are non-career employees who provide customers along a rural route a variety of services including
delivering and collecting mail and selling stamps, supplies and money orders. Desirable candidates may be required to have
a vehicle suitable for use and live within easy commuting distance of the facility location.
The job is physically demanding. Work is performed indoors and outdoors in all types of weather. Carriers may be required
to load and unload trays and containers of mail and parcels weighing as much as 70 pounds. Work is available usually on
Saturdays, then on an as needed basis to cover the absence of the carrier.
SUPERVISION
Manager, Customer Services; Supervisor, Customer Services; or Postmaster
The United States Postal Service has the following excellent and challenging employment opportunity for highly motivated
and innovative individuals. Successful candidates must demonstrate through a combination of education, training, and
experience the following requirements:
Requirements
1. DOCUMENT DATE: March 16, 2019
FUNCTION
Cases, delivers and collects mail along a prescribed rural route using a vehicle; provides customers on the route with a
variety of services.
DESCRIPTION OF WORK
See the Standard Position Description for the Occupation Code given above.
REQUIREMENTS
There are no separately evaluated knowledge, skill, or ability requirements for this position.
EXAMINATION REQUIREMENTS
Applicants must successfully complete the Virtual Entry Assessment – MC (474).
TRAINING/EXAMINATION REQUIREMENTS
Individuals who qualify and are selected under this standard will be required to complete prescribed training satisfactory to
demonstrate, through testing and/or practical demonstration, possession of knowledge, skills and abilities (KSAs) required for
the job. Failure to demonstrate any KSA is disqualifying. KSAs include Postal Service driving policies, safe driving practices,
and skills associated with specific job duties.