Newsroom Summer Internship Program 2027: Data Journalist
Apply
locations
DC-Washington-TWP Headquarters
time type
Full time
posted on
Posted 14 Days Ago
job requisition id
JR-90275900
Application Instructions

Please list all professional experience and explain any gaps in employment history. All of your application materials, which may include PDF files of work samples and/or links to audio, video, photography or graphics, must be uploaded to the field labeled Resume/Cover Letter/Work Samples to be considered for the position.

Join the future of news
We’re on a mission to deliver riveting storytelling for all of America. At The Washington Post, you’ll help reinvent news. Our work is driven by a deep investigative spirit and enhanced by innovation to bring audiences closer to the stories that matter most.

About Our Team
The Washington Post is powered by the passion and talent of our people. It takes all of us to reinvent news. Beyond our award-winning Newsroom and Opinions teams, we work across many departments, including Brand & Events, Communications, Customer Care, Engineering & Product, Finance, Human Resources, Legal, Marketing & Advertising, Print Operations, and Sales.

Why This Role Matters
  

The Washington Post is seeking college juniors, seniors and graduate students for the newsroom’s flagship summer internship program. Our interns report and write articles, edit copy, take photographs, shoot and edit video, create graphics, produce audio, design on multiple platforms, develop audience strategy and do data analyses. They work alongside and learn from award-winning journalists, and we treat them as staff members during their internship.

What Motivates You

You’re driven to capture the stories that inform, educate, inspire and delight audiences, using different formats and mediums.

You thrive in fast-moving environments and on deadline.

You are eager to work across a large, ambitious, collaborative newsroom.

How You’ll Support the Mission

You’ll work across the newsroom on a wide range of stories, from quick-turn coverage to large-scale projects.

You’ll acquire, clean and analyze data and present your results to reporters and editors.

You’ll write stories and suggest possibilities for visualization and presentation.

The Skills and Experience You Bring

You must be a college junior, senior or graduate student enrolled in a degree program by the application deadline, which is noon Eastern time on Friday, Oct. 9, 2026.

You are a technically adept reporter who works in R or Python and is infused with skepticism, bold ideas for analyses and smart storytelling approaches using data.

Sharp writing and visualization skills are a plus, as is experience using GitHub.

You have a commitment to accuracy, clarity and journalistic rigor.

Applications should include a résumé, autobiographical essay (which should be no more than 500 words), and a link to your work portfolio or copies of no more than three clips that demonstrate your best data-driven work. Please include an explanation of your role in each clip. Cover letters are not required. Materials can be submitted as links or documents to the same field labeled Resume/Cover Letter/Work Samples.

The deadline to apply is noon Eastern on Friday, Oct. 9, 2026.

This position will be based out of our Washington, D.C., headquarters. Interns are paid $1021.13/week.

  
Your story awaits. Apply today! 
Learn more about The Post at careers.washingtonpost.com.