GIS Technician I/II
Job Category: Operations
Requisition Number: GISTE003863
 

Posting Details
Posted: July 12, 2026
Full-Time
On-site
LocationsShowing 1 location
GLENDIVE, MT 59330, USA

 Responsible for interpreting, analyzing, and basic level maintenance of assigned geodatabases through use of a geographic information system (GIS), computer aided design (CAD) or other software. Updates, expands and maintains existing system maps and records at an entry level. Assists in developing detailed construction drawings for electric and/or natural gas construction projects.  This position is primarily focused on GIS data entry, editing, and maintenance activities using ArcPro. Surveying and CAD-related responsibilities are limited and are not the primary focus of this role.  

Responsible for placing safety as #1 priority in day to day work routine for self and others.

This is an on-site position and is not eligible for remote work.

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
GIS Technician I: ($24.52 - $30.65)

A working knowledge of GIS and/or CAD, geographic analysis, drafting and design principles and practices at a level normally acquired through a two-year degree in GIS, CAD design, geography, or equivalent experience.
GIS Technician II: ($27.46 - $34.32)

A working knowledge of GIS and/or CAD, geographic analysis, drafting, and design principles and practices at a level normally acquired through a four-year degree in GIS, CAD design, geography, or equivalent experience; and
Two years related GIS experience.
OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
Must take all measures necessary to protect networks, devices, programs, and data from cyber-attack, damage, or unauthorized access.
Must be legally authorized to work in the United States, no sponsorships considered.
Position may require travel within service territory.
May be required to maintain a valid driver’s license.
Subject to pre-employment drug testing and background check.
PREFERRED QUALIFICIATIONS:
Industry related GIS or CAD technical experience with mapping, property descriptions and land plats, landbase and surveying practices.
Experience in ESRI ArcGIS applications.
Experience with natural gas and/or electric systems and operations.
JOB RESPONSIBILITIES:
Creates and maintains the assigned land geodatabase using GIS, CAD and other software. Ensures the accuracy of the land geodatabase by making necessary corrections including the use of real-world data such as latitude/longitude or GPS point-data.
Interprets source documents, such as engineering plans, plat maps, legal descriptions, construction work orders, and service orders for incorporation into the GIS System.
Downloads, converts and uploads GIS data available from various internal and external sources, such as operational as-built, landbase resources and detailed maps of electric or natural gas transmission and distribution facilities, to integrate into the Enterprise GIS system.
Prepares maps, exhibits, alignment sheets, and drawings of gas and/or electric distribution systems or gas transmission systems.
Maintains manual and digital file systems of aerial photographs, final plats, site plans, and project files.
Assists GIS Analysts in preparation of requested electric and/or gas transmission and distribution facility recaps and reports.
Performs other tasks and special projects as assigned.
Deadline to Apply: 08/12/2026