Supply Chain Manager (40587)
Missoula, MT 59808
Description
Site Overview:

At American Eagle Instruments Inc., we pride ourselves on manufacturing high-quality dental hand tools in beautiful Missoula, Montana. As an established industry leader, AEI offers excellent career growth opportunities, competitive salaries and benefits and a dynamic work environment. We are willing to train employees to start, with no experience necessary! Together with our parent company, Young Innovations, we manufacture, and market high quality dental instruments, equipment, and supplies. With an outstanding reputation for quality, our company has a broad portfolio of market-leading products across a variety of categories.

Role Overview:

Reporting to the Plant Manager, this position is responsible for development of the production schedule and coordinating work between departments. Ensure that target dates are met and tasks are completed on time. Initiates planning, tracking movement and management of material.  Role will work directly with suppliers, and corporate sourcing to identify cost down, productivity efforts.

Essential Duties:

Evaluates processing workload and schedules jobs. 
Review production plan to identify risks. 
Plan inventory management to avoid any shortages and excesses.
Deliver direct material savings by leveraging supply base, engineering, corporate procurement, etc. 
Leverage MRP and external tools to develop optimized schedule to better balance plant execution, improve inventory turns, and mitigate risk of slow moving inventory.
Plan and monitor material movement in production cycle to ensure continuous operations.
Analyze customer orders (GC) and establish production schedules for timely delivery.
Review change orders and execute them appropriately.  
Assist supervisors monitoring the execution of job orders.
Accurately create, obtain any needed approval for, and issue vendor purchase orders as dictated by reorder points and inventory target levels.
Place, track, and ensure timely delivery of time-sensitive shipments. 
Utilize freight carriers, as needed, to meet delivery requirements as cost-effectively as possible.  
Communication of company vendor and shipping requirements as well as any special requests to suppliers. 
Resolution of overages, shortages, damaged and substituted product received from venders. Initiation of process for kiting orders and BOMs to be created based on demand.
Attend daily Leadership meetings. Communicate daily work plan and goals to the team and assist in holding department accountable to reach defined goals.
Assist production supervisor in any back order issues
Assist defining work priorities and communicate to the team
Assist on and promote process improvements and cost reductions
Assist in follow up on daily/weekly/monthly performance (on time delivery)
Promote and maintain a clean and safe work environment.
Participate in the utilization and implementation of all “Lean Manufacturing” tools (5s, Preventive Maintenance, SMED-Setup reduction.
Provide written reports as necessary.
Resolve personnel problems; implement and follow corrective action procedures when necessary.
Contributes to team efforts by initiating and fostering a spirit of cooperation within and between departments.
Assist in assessing team weaknesses and strengths through performance process
Inform employees of benefits, services and work related activities.
Resolve simple or informal complaints and refer formal complaints to appropriate supervisor.
Monitor and report on status of work as required
Related Duties:

Work with production, manufacturing departments in identifying and resolving production planning problems. Maintain vendor evaluation, as necessary. Supports receiving process and assists in resolving receiving-related issues. Supports operational activity and special projects as requested.

Qualifications
Minimum Qualifications:

Training and Experience:

2 or 4 year degree in related field is required.  Bachelors degree preferred.
Five to seven years of related experience within a manufacturing or distribution environment
Combination of education and experience considered.
Knowledge, Abilities and Skills:

Knowledge and moderate level of ability to utilize MS Office required.
Abilities required to satisfactorily perform the functions of the job include: communicating with diverse groups; meeting deadlines and schedules; working as part of a team; being flexible to changing conditions; working with multiple projects; dealing with frequent interruptions and changing priorities; and maintaining confidentiality.
Competencies necessary to satisfactorily perform the functions of the job include: operating standard office equipment including utilizing pertinent software applications; planning and managing projects; budgeting and financial management; developing effective working relationships, and outstanding customer service ability. 
 

Physical Requirements:

The position requires manual dexterity and the ability to work on a computer for extended periods of time.  Occasionally must be able to stand, walk, bend, reach, and lift up to 30 pounds.
Working Conditions:

Manufacturing plant environment, with some abnormal variations in temperature, unavoidable fumes, noise, dust and atmospheric conditions.
5% travel will be required.